---
breadcrumbs:
- - /Home
  - Chromium
- - /Home/chromium-security
  - Chromium Security
- - /Home/chromium-security/articles
  - Articles
page_name: gwp-asan
title: 'GWP-ASan: Sampling heap memory error detection in-the-wild'
---

By Vlad Tsyrklevich, Dynamic Tools Teams — November 2019

Memory safety errors, like use-after-frees and out-of-bounds reads/writes, are a
leading source of vulnerabilities in C/C++ applications. Despite investments in
preventing and detecting these errors in Chrome, over 60% of high severity
vulnerabilities in Chrome are memory safety errors. Some memory safety errors
don’t lead to security vulnerabilities but simply cause crashes and instability.

Chrome uses state-of-the-art techniques to prevent these errors, including:

    [Coverage-guided](https://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html)
    [fuzzing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_fuzzy_lop_(fuzzer)) with
    [AddressSanitizer](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/AddressSanitizer.html) (ASan)

    Unit and integration testing with ASan

    Defensive programming, like custom libraries to perform safe math or provide
    bounds checked containers

    Mandatory code review

Chrome also makes use of sandboxing and exploit mitigations to complicate
exploitation of memory errors that go undetected by the methods above.

AddressSanitizer is a compiler instrumentation that finds memory errors
occurring on the heap, stack, or in globals. ASan is highly effective and one of
the lowest overhead instrumentations available that detects the errors that it
does; however, it still incurs an average 2-3x performance and memory overhead.
This makes it suitable for use with unit tests or fuzzing, but not deployment to
end users. Chrome used to deploy [SyzyASAN instrumented
binaries](https://blog.chromium.org/2013/05/testing-chromium-syzyasan-lightweight.html)
to detect memory errors. SyzyASAN had a similar overhead so it was only deployed
to a small subset of users on the canary channel. It was discontinued after the
Windows toolchain switched to LLVM.

GWP-ASan, also known by its recursive backronym, GWP-ASan Will Provide
Allocation Sanity, is a sampling allocation tool designed to detect heap memory
errors occurring in production with negligible overhead. Because of its
negligible overhead we can deploy GWP-ASan to the entire Chrome user base to
find memory errors happening in the real world that are not caught by fuzzing or
testing with ASan. Unlike ASan, GWP-ASan can not find memory errors on the stack
or in globals.

GWP-ASan is currently enabled for all Windows and macOS users for allocations
made using malloc() and PartitionAlloc. It is only enabled for a small fraction
of allocations and processes to reduce performance and memory overhead to a
negligible amount. At the time of writing it has found [over sixty
bugs](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list?q=Hotlist%3DGWP-ASan&can=1)
(many are still restricted view). About 90% of the issues GWP-ASan has found are
use-after-frees. The remaining are out-of-bounds reads and writes.

Design

Overview

GWP-ASan is conceptually similar to
[ElectricFence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_Fence) or
[PageHeap](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/gflags-and-pageheap).
GWP-ASan installs an allocator instrumentation that samples allocations to a
debug allocator that places allocations on their own page, buttressed on both
sides by guard pages. New allocations are randomly either left- or right-aligned
within the page so that accessing the allocation below or above its bounds
causes a crash. When the allocation is freed, the page is unmapped so that a
use-after-free also immediately crashes. The allocator limits itself to a fixed
amount of memory to control memory overhead and samples allocation to the debug
allocator to reduce its high performance overhead.

Use-after-frees and out-of-bounds accesses are often hard to debug because they
corrupt unrelated memory which can lead to crashes in unrelated code. GWP-ASan
simplifies debugging by causing a crash immediately at the site of the invalid
memory access. Furthermore, when a crash occurs a special crash handler hook
reports additional information, like allocation and deallocation stack traces,
to aid debugging. This metadata is similar to what AddressSanitizer provides and
has been shown to be very useful in identifying and fixing memory errors.

GWP-ASan is a heap-only instrumentation so it does not find memory errors on the
stack or in globals that AddressSanitizer would; however, it can find some
memory errors that ASan would not. ASan works by instrumenting memory accesses
during compilation and makes use of ‘interceptors’ to detect misuse of common
library functions. Because GWP-ASan uses native memory management to detect
memory errors it doesn’t require interceptors to detect invalid memory use in
system libraries. This means it can identify API misuse for uncommon APIs that
don’t have interceptors, or even detect memory errors that occur due to bugs in
system libraries—something ASan can’t do without recompiling those potentially
proprietary libraries.

GWP-ASan is only as effective as the number of allocation call sites it
instruments. For an internal Chrome allocator like PartitionAlloc it is possible
to intercept all uses; however, for malloc/free we may only be able to
instrument a subset of allocations. For example, on Windows we instrument malloc
and free by overriding the symbols for modules we build linked against //base,
so some DLLs shipped with Chrome—let alone Windows system code—may not be
instrumented. On macOS however the system allocator allows adding global hooks
meaning we can
([and](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list?q=Hotlist%3DGWP-ASan%20Component%3DInternals%3EPlatformIntegration&can=1)
[do](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210634)) detect memory errors from
allocations originating in code we don’t control, like Apple system libraries.

Allocator

The GWP-ASan allocator reserves a fixed range of memory at initialization that
it uses to service allocations to limit memory overhead. The memory range
consists of pages intended to be used to return allocations, called slots,
buttressed by guard pages as shown below.

[<img alt="image"
src="/Home/chromium-security/articles/gwp-asan/gwp-asan-diagram1.png">](/Home/chromium-security/articles/gwp-asan/gwp-asan-diagram1.png)

Allocations are randomly left- or right-aligned to help detect both underflows
and overflows. Like a traditional allocator, the GWP-ASan allocator always
suitably aligns allocations for any object of that size. This means that
right-aligned allocations are not always directly adjacent to the following
guard page, so small out-of-bounds accesses may go undetected.

[<img alt="image"
src="/Home/chromium-security/articles/gwp-asan/gwp-asan-diagram2.png">](/Home/chromium-security/articles/gwp-asan/gwp-asan-diagram2.png)

An array of allocation metadata is also maintained on the side to store stack
traces and other metadata for individual slots.

The allocator has three primary tunable parameters: MaxSimultaneousAllocations,
MaxMetadata, and ReservedSlots. MaxSimultaneousAllocations controls the maximum
number of allocations that can be simultaneously allocated.

Once every usable slot has been allocated and deallocated, they are reused to
service new allocations. When a use-after-free occurs the use may not occur
immediately after deallocation. If the slot has been reallocated then the
use-after-free will not behave as expected. If the slot is still allocated then
the use won’t crash, but if it is deallocated then it will cause a crash but the
metadata for the slot will have the wrong allocation/deallocation stack traces.

Like ASan, GWP-ASan also makes use of a quarantine to help improve
use-after-free detection. ReservedSlots is always greater than or equal to
MaxSimultaneousAllocations and controls the number of slots we allocated virtual
memory for. If ReservedSlots &gt; MaxSimultaneousAllocations, then not all slots
can be simultaneously allocated. If slots are allocated in a round-robin fashion
then a slot will not be re-used until at least (ReservedSlots -
MaxSimultaneousAllocations) allocations have taken place, forming a rudimentary
quarantine. This delays the amount of time until a slot is re-used, improving
use-after-free detection at the expense of using more memory. The allocator
consumes more virtual memory for the additional quarantine slots and more
physical memory storing allocation metadata about those quarantine slots. Each
slot’s metadata consumes about 400 bytes, primarily to store compressed
allocation/deallocation stack traces, compared to 4 kilobytes for every
allocation. As a result, setting ReservedSlots to be slightly greater than
MaxSimultaneousAllocations doesn’t significantly increase the amount of memory
used.

The rudimentary quarantine described above is sufficient to delay slot re-use to
accurately detect use-after-frees occurring shortly after deallocation; however,
use-after-frees that occur long after deallocation are likely to access slots
that have already been reallocated. This can lead to long-lived use-after-frees
causing reports with numerous different stack traces for unrelated allocations
and deallocations, making it difficult to identify the real
allocation/deallocation call sites. This could be improved by making
ReservedSlots orders of magnitude larger than MaxSimultaneousAllocations;
however, the amount of additional allocation metadata that this would require
allocating would significantly increase GWP-ASan’s memory profile.

To address this, GWP-ASan makes use of a third MaxMetadata parameter to limit
the number of slots for which we store metadata. We tune the allocator such that
ReservedSlots &gt;= MaxMetadata &gt;= MaxSimultaneousAllocations. GWP-ASan keeps
metadata for all currently allocated slots as well as some previously
deallocated slots. Because we discard metadata for some deallocated slots, we
can not always report allocation metadata if those slots are accessed because of
a use-after-free. By setting ReservedSlots to be an order of magnitude or more
greater than MaxMetadata and MaxSimultaneousAllocations, we make the quarantine
so large that many allocations have to occur before a slot is reused. This
ensures that even long-lived use-after-frees are not likely to be reallocated
before they’re accessed. If no metadata for the slot is available, then a useful
report can’t be sent; however, we eliminate many false reports. Short-lived
use-after-frees are still likely to be accessed before the metadata for the slot
is eliminated. Using random eviction to purge old metadata entries allows
metadata for old allocations to sometimes survive long enough to be reported for
long-lived use-after-frees.

[<img alt="image"
src="/Home/chromium-security/articles/gwp-asan/diag4.png">](/Home/chromium-security/articles/gwp-asan/diag4.png)

The debug allocator currently only services allocations less than or equal to a
single page in size. This is not a fundamental limitation in the design--it’s
possible to service larger allocations by increasing the size of a slot to be
multiple pages. It simply hasn’t been addressed yet because allocations larger
than a page are relatively rare.

Unactionable crash reports can occur when a pointer is corrupted and the
overwritten value happens to accidentally point to a guard page or deallocated
slot in the GWP-ASan region. When such a wild pointer is accessed, it causes a
GWP-ASan report to be sent but it’s not actionable because the crash is caused
by an unrelated bug that corrupted the pointer value to point to an unrelated
allocation. In practice, such unactionable reports tend to occur on 32-bit
devices because the address space is smaller and the probability of a wild
pointer access touching the GWP-ASan region is much higher. GWP-ASan was
disabled for 32-bit desktop builds in order to eliminate these unactionable
reports. The allocator also explicitly maps the GWP-ASan memory region in high
memory locations to avoid the operating system choosing to place GWP-ASan region
in the bottom 32-bits of memory on 64-bit devices.

Allocator Hooks

GWP-ASan instruments an allocator’s allocation and deallocation routines. The
allocation instrumentation performs sampling to only route a fraction of
allocation requests to the debug allocator. The deallocation instrumentation
determines if the given allocation was allocated by the debug allocator and
routes the request to the debug allocator if so. Determining if an allocation
was returned by GWP-ASan is as simple as checking that the address is in
GWP-ASan’s fixed memory region and matching the address to the slot’s allocation
metadata.

Production allocators are normally highly optimized so adding additional
instrumentation to the allocation/deallocation hot paths can easily introduce
significant performance regressions. While the debug allocator’s overhead can be
reduced to an arbitrary amount by adjusting the sampling probability, the
overhead of the instrumentation itself introduces a constant overhead. Some
allocation-heavy microbenchmarks regressed up to 5% when introducing allocator
instrumentation no matter how low the sampling probability was made.

The instrumentation regression stems from the allocator hot-paths being very
performance sensitive and that instrumenting those hot-paths in Chrome requires
introducing a costly indirect call. GWP-ASan uses process sampling, only
enabling instrumentation for a fraction of processes, to reduce the
instrumentation overhead. This allows reducing the instrumentation overhead
arbitrarily and using more memory per-enabled process.

Crash Handler

Chrome is migrating to using crashpad for crash handling. Unlike its predecessor
breakpad, crashpad works almost entirely out-of-process. GWP-ASan registers a
hook in the crashpad process to inspect crashing processes in order to determine
if the crashes are related to GWP-ASan. On initialization, GWP-ASan saves the
address of the internal allocator object in a crashpad annotation so that the
crash handler can access it in the event of a crash. If the crashpad hook finds
this annotation, it reads the GWP-ASan allocator information to determine if the
crash occurred due to an access to a GWP-ASan allocation. If so, it attaches
[metadata](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/refs/tags/79.0.3924.1/components/gwp_asan/crash_handler/crash.proto)
for the associated allocation to the crash report.

# Tuning

Chrome uses a multi-process model with different types of processes with varying
lifetimes and allocator demands. For example, there is a single browser process
for the entire lifetime of a given browser window while many renderer processes
can be launched and destroyed in a single tab. A browser process could be active
for weeks and make tens of billions of allocations while other processes may
live for milliseconds and make thousands of allocations. Accommodating both
types of processes is tricky because there is a tension between GWP-ASan
regularly sampling allocations and exhausting its fixed supply of memory.

GWP-ASan exhausts its memory when all MaxSimultaneousAllocations slots are taken
and new allocations can’t be serviced. This can occur when all of the
allocations are long-lived, e.g. freed long after allocation or never freed at
all. If GWP-ASan runs out of allocations early in a process’ lifetime then the
majority of the process’ allocations go unsampled.

In order to better understand allocation behavior we analyze heap traces for
different runs of Chromium. The following trace comes from opening a browser,
playing a YouTube video for ten seconds, and then closing the browser. The
following visualization shows allocation lifetimes for malloc() allocations in
the GPU process.

<img alt="image"
src="https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/zNvAZs5kvLi3pWg95qzTx44-YEnV_cPhxUz5Zis7N3PHz3O8mTUl8AmyHRq4mBTyHlKLoHt8W4Ho-I4Ir8-mgShjxJBbBt4m0GMjUIOBPpf-paaeHpQcrjwLapXkHlvyK23uYzU-">

Every vertical bar represents two thousand allocations subdivided into different
allocation lifetimes. The horizontal axis is the process lifetime. This process
makes approximately 250,000 allocations. Most allocations are freed within 25
milliseconds, and only 4% of allocations are never freed during the process’
lifetime.

The following graph is for allocations made using PartitionAlloc in the YouTube
renderer process:

<img alt="image"
src="https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/DMRz54twMEpT7jM1N5YRptzCIbhaXXU3aAIfZ4cFbxEa47OcXLg6SosZJ4SN-TNEVkK8aVAv_jGzgdOvs18H8Bwatn0GdjLoswBywWCl83ON4fzTG8jpMoAJm0uJ-9firc5-7NtY">

This process makes about 1.1 million allocations and about 7% go unfreed. In
both examples, unfreed allocations cluster at the beginning of the process’
lifetime. Because of the difference in number of total and long-lived
allocations, the renderer process may exhaust GWP-ASan allocations early with
the same parameters that would sample the GPU process without exhaustion.

Long lifetime allocations can also lead to temporary allocator exhaustion, for
example if the allocations are not freed until right before process destruction.
Modeling simulated runs with different GWP-ASan configurations over different
heap traces best illustrates what allocator behavior can occur in practice. The
following is a simulated run for the renderer trace above with sampling
probability 1/1000 and 16 simultaneous allocations:

<img alt="image"
src="https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/443plq4yGGNrGszyiQZqIye4zoN-pb09q0qAUzz5qOtatSNKuFzI8sz29Ehlsr_EQHRlfgk0hWRY1gpgoeLXB6gSrSgKqJ9crm3XztePIEYnKWY7w1-lYkWh6Z_85W_snmZYLGqF"
height=365 width=730.311111111111>

The bars represent allocation lifetimes, with the vertical axis being time. In
the simulation above GWP-ASan runs out of allocations for most of the process
lifetime with occasional bursts of sampling as long-lived allocations are freed
and re-used until they are replaced by new long-lived allocations.

To avoid allocator exhaustion, the allocator must use more memory per process or
reduce the sampling probability. The following is a simulation run with sampling
probability 1/8000 and 64 simultaneous allocations:

<img alt="image"
src="https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/64as-cfN6-NoQqkrvxQ3bzziNscyMgOB56gqaqpaayVAcMHRxdTH_aCc5cg42k02T4xW8JXgojEWl9RZZNIGwCNK1X19lvWflOSc_Mgfg-tVEssi_BuJs35Xdl9dBXzvAOmYjVRS"
height=360 width=719.7338262476894>

In this simulation GWP-ASan is able to evenly sample the entire process’
lifetime despite the presence of long-lived and unfreed allocations. Some runs
may still be unlucky and run out of allocations early, but it’s far less common.

In practice, because of process sampling we can allocate more memory per enabled
process. GWP-ASan’s production settings only sample a small fraction of
processes, so it’s safe to allocate more memory for every enabled process.

Instead of uniformly reducing the sampling probability for all processes,
GWP-ASan picks a sampling probability from a range of probabilities at
initialization. The sampling probability may sometimes be more frequent (and
lead to early allocator exhaustion), or less frequent (and lead to fewer
detected errors), than optimal. However, it allows accommodating different
allocation behavior in different processes.

# Results

The Chrome project makes extensive use of ASan in unit tests and during fuzzing
with [ClusterFuzz](https://google.github.io/clusterfuzz/) to detect memory
errors early. As a result, the bugs GWP-ASan finds tend to be where our current
fuzzing and test infrastructure don't sufficiently test the underlying error
conditions. Unit and integration tests typically tend to only test expected
success and failure conditions. Fuzzers test a wider variety of inputs, but
coverage isn’t universal. Furthermore, fuzzing is well suited for testing
specific narrowly-scoped components like parsers and other input processors, but
not all memory safety errors in Chrome fit that description.

Some of the types of bugs that GWP-ASan has been successful in finding include:

    Race conditions. These may manifest as races between two threads freeing an
    allocation and using it, or an event firing at an inopportune time such that
    an allocation used by the parent event loop is freed by the event.
    ClusterFuzz may not be able to exercise the correct conditions to trigger
    the race or may not reproduce the racy crash reliably enough to satisfy a
    heuristic to avoid reporting false positives.

    Chrome- or OS-specific configuration bugs. Some bugs may only manifest in
    configurations that are not exercised by Chrome’s testing and fuzzing
    infrastructure.

    Bugs in UI code. Unit tests and fuzzers tend not to exercise UI code. UI
    code is also susceptible to lifetime and bounds-related errors though they
    are more likely to be stability issues instead of security issues.

One example issue is [this](https://crbug.com/977341) bug in Skia. The
underlying memory error is a racy use-after-free where two threads
near-simultaneously free and access an allocation. This bug had been causing
crashes on macOS for a while, but it was difficult to spot the issue because the
crashes occurred in different places depending on which underlying allocation
was corrupted. With GWP-ASan it was immediately clear where the error occurred,
but both threads freeing and accessing the allocation were doing so after
locking the same mutex so it should have been impossible. With the use and
deallocation stack traces proving that this was occurring despite the mutex, it
was easy to track the bug down to the Skia mutex class. The macOS implementation
did not account for spurious wake-ups and could violate mutual exclusion.
Without the information provided by GWP-ASan, it would be difficult to debug
such an issue.

As GWP-ASan was progressively rolled out to wider audiences, it detected rarer
and rarer bugs. Frequently occurring bugs may be detected within hours of a new
canary release while some rarely-occurring bugs have only been detected in the
stable population once so far. It’s possible to find these rare errors because
GWP-ASan is deployed widely and designed to minimize unactionable reports, but
there are likely to be rare errors that we don’t catch because increasing
sampling to detect them would require unacceptable memory and performance
overhead. The [ARM Memory Tagging
Extension](https://community.arm.com/developer/ip-products/processors/b/processors-ip-blog/posts/enhancing-memory-safety)
and similar hardware-assisted memory tagging schemes would allow implementing a
[similar error
detector](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/blob/master/hwaddress-sanitizer/login_summer19_03_serebryany.pdf)
with much lower memory and performance overhead and a much higher probability of
detecting errors. Such memory tagging schemes also allow detecting stack bounds
and use-after-return errors and may even be useful as exploit mitigations.

# Future Improvements

GWP-ASan has a high memory overhead per allocation. Every allocation is stored
on its own page but Chrome’s median allocation size is only 32 bytes. It’s
possible to place multiple allocations on a single physical page and maintain
the ability to detect use-after-frees using a special virtual memory
configuration. The approach reduces GWP-ASan’s memory overhead at the cost of
reducing out-of-bounds error detection.

Placing multiple allocations on the same virtual memory page would reduce
use-after-free detection because the page could not be unmapped until all of the
allocations on the page were deallocated. If a single allocation on that page
were to never be freed then use-after-free detection would be completely lost.

It is possible to use the operating system’s shared memory facilities to work
around this constraint. It is possible to map shared memory multiple times in
the same process. This allows multiple virtual memory pages to point to the same
backing physical page. Multiple allocations can be placed on the same backing
physical page but every allocation can be given it’s own unique slot/virtual
page. This way, once an allocation is freed, the slot can be unmapped to detect
use-after-frees without interfering with the other allocations. Only a fraction
of allocations will be able to be left- or right-aligned within the page so
out-of-bounds errors detection would suffer with this scheme; however, in
practice use-after-free exceptions are much more common.

[<img alt="image"
src="/Home/chromium-security/articles/gwp-asan/gwp-asan-diagram3.png">](/Home/chromium-security/articles/gwp-asan/gwp-asan-diagram3.png)

This approach allows significantly increasing memory density and therefore the
number of simultaneous allocations. It’s conceivable that the memory overhead of
allocation metadata like stack traces would come to dominate GWP-ASan’s memory
usage instead of the wasted page overhead.

Increasing the number of simultaneous allocations helps prevent allocator
exhaustion. Mobile platforms especially tend to be much more memory constrained
so deploying GWP-ASan in those environments may necessitate use of this
approach.

Thanks to Matthew Denton, Adrian Taylor, Chris Palmer, Kostya Serebryany, Matt
Morehouse, and Mitch Phillips for their feedback.