.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "XDG\-SU" "1" "07/31/2006" "This is release 0.5 of the xdg\-su Manual" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
xdg\-su \- run a GUI program as root after prompting for the root password
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 7
\fBxdg\-su\fR [\fB\-u\ \fR\fB\fIuser\fR\fR] \fB\-c\ \fR\fB\fIcommand\fR\fR
.HP 7
\fBxdg\-su\fR {\fB\-\-help\fR \fB\-\-manual\fR \fB\-\-version\fR}
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
xdg\-su provides a graphical dialog that prompts the user for a password to run
\fIcommand\fR
as
\fIuser\fR
or as root if no user was specified.
.PP
xdg\-su is for use inside a desktop session only.
.PP
xdg\-su discards any stdout and stderr output from
\fIcommand\fR.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-u \fR\fB\fIuser\fR\fR
run
\fIcommand\fR
as
\fIuser\fR. The default is to run as root.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show command synopsis.
.TP
\fB\-\-manual\fR
Show this manualpage.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show the xdg\-utils version information.
.SH "EXIT CODES"
.PP
An exit code of 0 indicates success while a non\-zero exit code indicates failure. The following failure codes can be returned:
.TP
\fB1\fR
Error in command line syntax.
.TP
\fB2\fR
One of the files passed on the command line did not exist.
.TP
\fB3\fR
A required tool could not be found.
.TP
\fB4\fR
The action failed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBsu\fR(1)
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.nf
xdg\-su \-u root \-c "/opt/shinythings/bin/install\-GUI \-\-install fast"
.fi
.sp
Runs the /opt/shinythings/bin/install\-GUI command with root permissions.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Kevin Krammer, Jeremy White. 
.br
<kevin.krammer@gmx.at>
.br
<jwhite@codeweavers.com>
