.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "XDG\-OPEN" "1" "06/24/2007" "xdg\-utils 1.0" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
xdg\-open \- opens a file or URL in the user's preferred application
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 9
\fBxdg\-open\fR {\fB\fIfile\fR\fR \fB\fIURL\fR\fR}
.HP 9
\fBxdg\-open\fR {\fB\-\-help\fR \fB\-\-manual\fR \fB\-\-version\fR}
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
xdg\-open opens a file or URL in the user's preferred application. If a URL is provided the URL will be opened in the user's preferred web browser. If a file is provided the file will be opened in the preferred application for files of that type. xdg\-open supports file, ftp, http and https URLs.
.PP
xdg\-open is for use inside a desktop session only. It is not recommended to use xdg\-open as root.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show command synopsis.
.TP
\fB\-\-manual\fR
Show this manualpage.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show the xdg\-utils version information.
.SH "EXIT CODES"
.PP
An exit code of 0 indicates success while a non\-zero exit code indicates failure. The following failure codes can be returned:
.TP
\fB1\fR
Error in command line syntax.
.TP
\fB2\fR
One of the files passed on the command line did not exist.
.TP
\fB3\fR
A required tool could not be found.
.TP
\fB4\fR
The action failed.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.nf
xdg\-open 'http://www.freedesktop.org/'
.fi
.sp
Opens the Freedesktop.org website in the user's default browser
.PP
.nf
xdg\-open /tmp/foobar.png
.fi
.sp
Opens the PNG image file /tmp/foobar.png in the user's default image viewing application.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Kevin Krammer, Jeremy White. 
.br
<kevin.krammer@gmx.at>
.br
<jwhite@codeweavers.com>
