.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "XDG\-TERMINAL" "1" "12/07/2006" "xdg\-utils 1.0" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
xdg\-terminal \- opens the user's preferred terminal emulator application
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 13
\fBxdg\-terminal\fR [\fB\fIcommand\fR\fR]
.HP 13
\fBxdg\-terminal\fR {\fB\-\-help\fR \fB\-\-manual\fR \fB\-\-version\fR}
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
xdg\-terminal opens the user's preferred terminal emulator application. If a command is provided the command will be executed by the shell within the newly opened terminal window.
.PP
xdg\-terminal is for use inside a desktop session only. It is not recommended to use xdg\-terminal as root.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show command synopsis.
.TP
\fB\-\-manual\fR
Show this manualpage.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show the xdg\-utils version information.
.SH "EXIT CODES"
.PP
An exit code of 0 indicates success while a non\-zero exit code indicates failure. The following failure codes can be returned:
.TP
\fB1\fR
Error in command line syntax.
.TP
\fB3\fR
A required tool could not be found.
.TP
\fB4\fR
The action failed.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
.nf
xdg\-terminal
.fi
.sp
Opens the user's default terminal emulator, just starting an interactive shell.
.PP
.nf
xdg\-terminal top
.fi
.sp
Opens the user's default terminal emulator and lets it run the top executable.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Kevin Krammer. 
.br
<kevin.krammer@gmx.at>
