---
breadcrumbs:
- - /teams
  - Teams
- - /teams/animations
  - Animations Team
page_name: highlights-archive
title: Highlights Archive
---

This page contains an archive of previous Chromium Animations team highlights.

[October 2021 - 2 sprint's worth of
highlights!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/october-2021---2-sprints-worth-of-highlights)

[September 2021 - New features, testing, code health, interop fixes and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/september-2021---new-features-testing-code-health-interop-fixes-and-more)

[August 2021 (Vol. 2) - New features, Code health, Stability/security
fixes!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/august-2021-vol-2---new-features-code-health-stability-security-fixes)

[August 2021 - New features, fixit, testing, code health and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/august-2021---new-features-fixit-testing-code-health-and-more)

[July 2021 - New features, fixit, stability/security fixes, interop fixes and
more!](/july-2021---new-features-fixit-stability-security-fixes-interop-fixes-and-more)

[June 2021 (Vol 2) - New features, stability fixes, Interop fixes and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/june-2021-vol-2---new-features-stability-fixes-interop-fixes-and-more)

[June 2021 - New features, stability fixes, Interop fixes and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/june-2021---new-features-stability-fixes-interop-fixes-and-more)

[May 2021 - New features, Testing, stability fixes, Interop fixes and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/may-2021---new-features-testing-stability-fixes-interop-fixes-and-more)

[April 2021 (Vol. 2) - New features, Testing, Stability fixes, Interop fixes and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/april-2021-vol-2---new-features-testing-stability-fixes-interop-fixes-and-more)

[April 2021 - New features, Testing, Stability fixes, Interop fixes, Metrics and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/april-2021---new-features-testing-stability-fixes-interop-fixes-metrics-and-more)

[March 2021 - Fixit week, New features, Testing, Interop, Metrics and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/march-2021---fixit-week-new-features-testing-interop-metrics-and-more)

[Feburary 2021 - New Features, Testing, Stability Fixes, Code Health and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/february-2021-new-features-testing-stability-fixes-code-health-and-more)

[January 2021 - New Features, Testing, Stability Fixes and Code
Health!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/january-2021---code-health-new-features-testing-and-stability-fixes)

[October 2020 - Code Health, Scroll Timeline, Synthetic User Activation, Scroll
Unification and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/october-2020---code-health-scroll-timelines-synthetic-user-activation-scroll-unification-and-more)

[September 2020 (Vol. 2) - Code Health, Logical Property Animation, Off-thread
PaintWorklet, Capability Delegation and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/september-2020-vol-2---code-health-logical-property-animation-off-thread-paintworklet-capability-delegation-and-more)

[September 2020 - Code Health, Animation Timelines, Smoothness Metrics,
Animation event handlers and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/september-2020---code-heath-animation-timelines-smoothness-metrics-animation-event-handlers-and-more)

[August 2020 - Code Heath, Animations, Context Menu and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/august-2020---code-health-animations-context-menu-and-more)

[July 2020 - Animations Documentation, Throughput Metrics, Code Health,
Capability Delegation, User Input Security and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/animations-documentation-throughput-metrics-code-health-capability-delegation-user-input-security-and-more)

[June 2020 - Web Animations, Scroll-linked Animations, Throughput Metrics,
Scroll unification, WebDriver, Pointer Events and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/june-2020---web-animations-scroll-linked-animations-throughput-metrics-scroll-unification-webdriver-pointer-events-and-more)

[April 2020 - Web Animations, Scroll-linked Animations, Throughput Metrics,
Performant Meet, Hackathon and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/april-2020---web-animations-scroll-linked-animations-throughput-metrics-and-more)

[March 2020 - Web Animations, Scroll-linked Animations, Throughput Metrics and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/march-2020---web-animations-scroll-linked-animations-throughput-metrics-and-more)

[February 2020 - Web Animation, Scroll-linked Animation, Snap after layout,
Throughput metrics and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/web-animation-scroll-linked-animation-snap-after-layout-throughput-metrics-and-more)

[January 2020 - Off-thread PaintWorklet, Web Animation, ScrollTimeline, Virtual
Scroller, ScrollSnap and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/january-2020---off-thread-paintworklet-web-animation-scrolltimeline-virtual-scroller-scrollsnap-and-more)

[Nov & Dec 2019 - BlinkOn, ScrollSnap, Lottie, HitTesting, VirtualScroller,
WebSharedLibrary, WPT and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/nov-dec-2019---blinkon-scrollsnap-lottie-hittesting-virtualscroller-websharedlibrary-wpt-and-more)

[October 2019 - Microtasking WebAnimations, Frame Throughput metrics, Group
Effect polyfill and more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/october-2019)

[September 2019 - TPAC 2019, Scroll Timeline polyfill, Paint Worklet launch,
team changes, and more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/september-update)

[August 2019 - Viz hit-testing false positives, code-health projects, counting
CSS properties, and more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/august-2019)

[July 2019 - GroupEffect, color interpolation, Viz V2 hit-testing heading to
stable, and more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/july-2019)

[June 2019, Volume II - Spooky bugs, prototyping ScrollTimeline, better bezier
curves, and more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/june-2019-volume-ii)

[June 2019 - Lottie renderer, jump timing functions, scroll-snap-stop and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/june-2019)

[May 2019 - shipping more of Web Animations, jank-free PaintWorklet animations,
and more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/may-2019)

[April 2019, Volume II - Lottie animations, stateful Animation Worklets, and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/april-2019-volume-ii)

[April 2019 - an update on PaintWorklet, performance improvements in Viz V2
hit-testing, and more! ](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/april-2019)

[March 2019 - better transform animations, AMP origin trial updates, and
more!](/teams/animations/highlights-archive/march-2019)