[cpp_python_util] # util tfe
tensorflow::swig::IsSequence
tensorflow::swig::IsSequenceOrComposite
tensorflow::swig::IsCompositeTensor
tensorflow::swig::IsTypeSpec
tensorflow::swig::IsNamedtuple
tensorflow::swig::IsMapping
tensorflow::swig::IsMutableMapping
tensorflow::swig::IsMappingView
tensorflow::swig::IsAttrs
tensorflow::swig::IsTensor
tensorflow::swig::IsResourceVariable
tensorflow::swig::IsVariable
tensorflow::swig::SameNamedtuples
tensorflow::swig::AssertSameStructure
tensorflow::swig::Flatten
tensorflow::swig::IsSequenceForData
tensorflow::swig::FlattenForData
tensorflow::swig::AssertSameStructureForData
tensorflow::swig::RegisterPyObject
tensorflow::swig::RegisterType
tensorflow::swig::IsEagerTensorSlow

[util_port] # util_port
tensorflow::IsGoogleCudaEnabled
tensorflow::IsBuiltWithROCm
tensorflow::IsBuiltWithNvcc
tensorflow::GpuSupportsHalfMatMulAndConv
tensorflow::IsMklEnabled

[stream_executor_pimpl] # stat_summarizer
stream_executor::StreamExecutor::EnablePeerAccessTo
stream_executor::StreamExecutor::CanEnablePeerAccessTo

[print_model_analysis] # tfprof
tensorflow::tfprof::NewProfiler
tensorflow::tfprof::DeleteProfiler
tensorflow::tfprof::AddStep
tensorflow::tfprof::WriteProfile
tensorflow::tfprof::ProfilerFromFile
tensorflow::tfprof::Profile
tensorflow::tfprof::PrintModelAnalysis
tensorflow::tfprof::SerializeToString

[graph_analyzer_tool] # graph_analyzer
tensorflow::grappler::graph_analyzer::GraphAnalyzerTool

[bfloat16_lib] # bfloat16
tensorflow::RegisterNumpyBfloat16
tensorflow::Bfloat16PyType

[events_writer] # events_writer
tensorflow::EventsWriter::Init
tensorflow::EventsWriter::InitWithSuffix
tensorflow::EventsWriter::WriteSerializedEvent
tensorflow::EventsWriter::Flush
tensorflow::EventsWriter::Close

[py_func_lib] # py_func
tensorflow::InitializePyTrampoline

[framework_internal_impl] # op_def_registry, dtypes
tensorflow::BaseType
tensorflow::DataTypeString
tensorflow::DataTypeIsComplex
tensorflow::DataTypeIsFloating
tensorflow::DataTypeIsInteger
tensorflow::DataTypeIsQuantized
tensorflow::DataTypeIsUnsigned
tensorflow::DataTypeSize
tensorflow::OpRegistry::Global
tensorflow::OpRegistry::LookUpOpDef
tensorflow::RemoveNonDeprecationDescriptionsFromOpDef

[lib_internal_impl]  # device_lib
tensorflow::Status::code
tensorflow::Status::error_message
tensorflow::Status::ok()

[device]  # device_lib, tfe, tf_session
tensorflow::Device::attributes

[device_factory]  # device_lib, tfe, tf_session
tensorflow::DeviceFactory::AddDevices
tensorflow::DeviceFactory::ListAllPhysicalDevices
tensorflow::DeviceFactory::GetAnyDeviceDetails

[session_options]  # device_lib, tfe, tf_session
tensorflow::SessionOptions::SessionOptions

[quantize_training]  # quantize_training
tensorflow::DoQuantizeTrainingOnSerializedGraphDef

[session_state]  # tf_session
tensorflow::SessionState::kTensorHandleResourceTypeName

[server_lib] # server_lib
tensorflow::data::GrpcDataServerBase::Join
tensorflow::data::GrpcDataServerBase::Start
tensorflow::data::GrpcDataServerBase::Stop
tensorflow::data::GrpcDataServerBase::BoundPort
tensorflow::data::DispatchGrpcDataServer::NumWorkers
tensorflow::data::NewDispatchServer
tensorflow::data::NewWorkerServer

[protos_all]  # device_lib, dtypes
tensorflow::DataType_IsValid
tensorflow::ConfigProto::ConfigProto
tensorflow::ConfigProto::ParseFromString
tensorflow::DeviceAttributes::SerializeToString

[py_exception_registry] # py_exception_registry
tensorflow::PyExceptionRegistry::Init
tensorflow::PyExceptionRegistry::Lookup

[kernel_registry] # kernel_registry
tensorflow::swig::TryFindKernelClass

[toco_python_api] # toco_python_api
toco::TocoConvert
toco::TocoGetPotentiallySupportedOps
toco::MlirQuantizeModel
toco::MlirSparsifyModel

[transform_graph_lib] # transform_graph
tensorflow::graph_transforms::TransformGraph
tensorflow::graph_transforms::ParseTransformParameters

[checkpoint_reader] # py_checkpoint_reader
tensorflow::checkpoint::CheckpointReader
tensorflow::checkpoint::CheckpointReader::Init
tensorflow::checkpoint::CheckpointReader::DebugString
tensorflow::checkpoint::CheckpointReader::GetVariableToShapeMap
tensorflow::checkpoint::CheckpointReader::GetVariableToDataTypeMap
tensorflow::checkpoint::CheckpointReader::GetTensor
tensorflow::checkpoint::CheckpointReader::HasTensor

[tensor_bundle] # py_checkpoint_reader
tensorflow::BundleReader::BundleReader
tensorflow::BundleReader::~BundleReader

[ndarray_tensor] # py_checkpoint_reader
tensorflow::TensorToNdarray

[safe_ptr] # py_checkpoint_reader
tensorflow::detail::PyDecrefDeleter
tensorflow::make_safe

[python_op_gen] # python_op_gen
tensorflow::GetPythonWrappers

[pywrap_tfe_lib] # tfe
tensorflow::TFE_TensorHandleCache
tensorflow::TFE_TensorHandleCache::Clear
EagerTensor_CheckExact
EagerTensorFromHandle
EagerTensor_Handle
TFE_Py_ExecuteCancelable
TFE_Py_RegisterExceptionClass
TFE_Py_RegisterVSpace
TFE_Py_RegisterFallbackExceptionClass
TFE_Py_RegisterGradientFunction
TFE_Py_RegisterJVPFunction
TFE_GetPythonString
TFE_Py_UID
TFE_DeleteContextCapsule
TFE_Py_InitEagerTensor
TFE_Py_SetEagerTensorProfiler
TFE_Py_TapeSetNew
TFE_Py_TapeSetRemove
TFE_Py_TapeSetAdd
TFE_Py_TapeSetIsEmpty
TFE_Py_TapeSetShouldRecordBackprop
TFE_Py_TapeSetPossibleGradientTypes
TFE_Py_TapeWatch
TFE_Py_TapeSetDeleteTrace
TFE_Py_TapeSetStopOnThread
TFE_Py_TapeSetRestartOnThread
TFE_Py_TapeSetIsStopped
TFE_Py_TapeSetRecordOperation
TFE_Py_TapeSetRecordOperationBackprop
TFE_Py_TapeSetRecordOperationForwardprop
TFE_Py_TapeVariableAccessed
TFE_Py_TapeWatchVariable
TFE_Py_TapeGradient
TFE_Py_FastPathExecute_C
TFE_Py_RecordGradient
TFE_Py_TapeWatchedVariables
TFE_Py_VariableWatcherNew
TFE_Py_VariableWatcherRemove
TFE_Py_VariableWatcherVariableAccessed
TFE_Py_VariableWatcherWatchedVariables
TFE_Py_ForwardAccumulatorNew
TFE_Py_ForwardAccumulatorSetAdd
TFE_Py_ForwardAccumulatorSetRemove
TFE_Py_ForwardAccumulatorWatch
TFE_Py_ForwardAccumulatorJVP
TFE_Py_ForwardAccumulatorPushState
TFE_Py_ForwardAccumulatorPopState
TFE_Py_PackJVPs
TFE_Py_TensorShapeSlice
TFE_Py_TensorShapeOnDevice
TFE_Py_EncodeArg
TFE_Py_EnableInteractivePythonLogging
TFE_Py_SetEagerContext

[eager_executor] # tfe
tensorflow::EagerExecutor::~EagerExecutor
tensorflow::EagerContext::WaitForAndCloseRemoteContexts

[tf_status_helper] # tfe
tensorflow::Set_TF_Status_from_Status

[context] # tfe
tensorflow::EagerContext::WaitForAndCloseRemoteContexts

[mlir] # mlir
tensorflow::ExperimentalRunPassPipeline
tensorflow::ExperimentalConvertSavedModelV1ToMlir
tensorflow::ExperimentalConvertSavedModelToMlir
tensorflow::ImportGraphDef

[op_gen_lib] # tf_session
tensorflow::ApiDefMap::~ApiDefMap

[graph_constructor] # tf_session
tensorflow::ShapeRefiner::~ShapeRefiner

[python_api] # tf_session
tensorflow::AddControlInput
tensorflow::SetAttr
tensorflow::ClearAttr
tensorflow::SetRequestedDevice
tensorflow::UpdateEdge
tensorflow::RemoveAllControlInputs
tensorflow::SetRequireShapeInferenceFns
tensorflow::ExtendSession
tensorflow::GetHandleShapeAndType
tensorflow::SetHandleShapeAndType
tensorflow::AddWhileInputHack

[numpy_lib] # tf_session
tensorflow::ImportNumpy
_tensorflow_numpy_api

[tf_session_helper] # tf_session
tensorflow::TF_NewSessionRef
tensorflow::TF_SessionMakeCallable
tensorflow::TF_SessionRunCallable
tensorflow::TF_SessionReleaseCallable
tensorflow::TF_Reset_wrapper
tensorflow::EqualGraphDefWrapper
tensorflow::EqualAttrValueWrapper
tensorflow::TF_GraphGetTensorShapeHelper
tensorflow::TF_SessionRun_wrapper
tensorflow::TF_SessionPRunSetup_wrapper
tensorflow::TF_SessionPRun_wrapper
tensorflow::GetOperationInputs
tensorflow::TF_OperationGetControlInputs_wrapper
tensorflow::TF_OperationGetControlOutputs_wrapper
tensorflow::TF_OperationOutputConsumers_wrapper
tensorflow::TF_GraphToFunction_wrapper
tensorflow::TF_GraphSetOutputHandleShapesAndTypes_wrapper
tensorflow::TF_CreatePlaceholders
tensorflow::TF_GraphSetTensorShape_wrapper
tensorflow::TF_ImportGraphDefResultsMissingUnusedInputMappings_wrapper
tensorflow::TF_TryEvaluateConstant_wrapper

[grappler_item] # tf_item
tensorflow::grappler::GrapplerItem::MainOpsFanin
tensorflow::grappler::GrapplerItem::EnqueueOpsFanin

[graph_properties] # tf_item
tensorflow::grappler::GraphProperties::InferStatically
tensorflow::grappler::GraphProperties::GetOutputProperties

[grappler_item_builder] # tf_item
tensorflow::grappler::GrapplerItemFromMetaGraphDef

[topological_sort] # tf_item
tensorflow::grappler::TopologicalSort

[clusters/utils] # tf_cluster tf_optimizer
tensorflow::grappler::GetDeviceInfo

[costs/utils] # tf_optimizer tf_cluster
tensorflow::grappler::CostGraphToOpPerformanceData
tensorflow::grappler::GetDeviceInfo

[meta_optimizer] # tf_optimizer
tensorflow::grappler::MetaOptimizer::MetaOptimizer
tensorflow::grappler::MetaOptimizer::Optimize
tensorflow::grappler::MetaOptimizer::PrintResult

[clusters/cluster] # tf_cluster
tensorflow::grappler::Cluster::AllowSoftPlacement
tensorflow::grappler::Cluster::SetNumWarmupSteps
tensorflow::grappler::Cluster::DisableDetailedStats
tensorflow::grappler::Cluster::DetailedStatsEnabled

[single_machine] # tf_cluster
tensorflow::grappler::SingleMachine::SingleMachine

[op_level_cost_estimator] # tf_cluster
tensorflow::grappler::OpLevelCostEstimator::OpLevelCostEstimator
tensorflow::grappler::OpLevelCostEstimator::PredictCosts
tensorflow::grappler::OpLevelCostEstimator::GetDeviceInfo

[virtual_cluster] # tf_cluster
tensorflow::grappler::VirtualCluster::VirtualCluster

[graph_memory] # tf_cluster
tensorflow::grappler::GraphMemory::InferStatically
tensorflow::grappler::GraphMemory::InferDynamically

[measuring_cost_estimator] # tf_cluster
tensorflow::grappler::MeasuringCostEstimator::MeasuringCostEstimator
tensorflow::grappler::MeasuringCostEstimator::Initialize
tensorflow::grappler::MeasuringCostEstimator::PredictCosts

[devices] # tf_cluster
tensorflow::grappler::GetNumAvailableGPUs
tensorflow::grappler::GetNumAvailableLogicalCPUCores

[traceme_recorder_impl] # profiler
tensorflow::profiler::TraceMeRecorder::Record

[annotation_stack_impl] # profiler
tensorflow::profiler::AnnotationStack::ThreadAnnotationStack

[profiler_session_impl] # profiler
tensorflow::ProfilerSession::Create
tensorflow::ProfilerSession::CollectData
tensorflow::ProfilerSession::SerializeToString
tensorflow::ProfilerSession::Status
tensorflow::ProfilerSession::~ProfilerSession

[status_macros] # tfcompile
xla::status_macros::MakeErrorStream::Impl::Impl
xla::status_macros::MakeErrorStream::Impl::~Impl
xla::status_macros::MakeErrorStream::Impl::GetStatus
xla::status_macros::MakeErrorStream::CheckNotDone

[hlo] # tfcompile
xla::DfsHloVisitorBase::SetVisited
xla::DfsHloVisitorBase<class xla::HloInstruction.*>::SetVisited
xla::HloComputation::Accept
xla::HloComputation::AcceptOrdered
xla::HloComputation::CollectUnreachableRoots
xla::HloInstruction::ToString
xla::HloInstruction::Accept
xla::HloInstruction::Visit

[tfcompile_lib] # tfcompile
tensorflow::tfcompile::Main

[model_analyzer_lib] # model_analyzer
tensorflow::grappler::ModelAnalyzer::GenerateReport
tensorflow::grappler::ModelAnalyzer::ModelAnalyzer

[analytical_cost_estimator] # cost_analyzer
tensorflow::grappler::AnalyticalCostEstimator::Initialize
tensorflow::grappler::AnalyticalCostEstimator::PredictCosts

[cost_analyzer_lib] # cost_analyzer
tensorflow::grappler::CostAnalyzer::CostAnalyzer
tensorflow::grappler::CostAnalyzer::GenerateReport

[flags] # tfe
tensorflow::IsXlaEnabled
tensorflow::GetMlirCommonFlags
