.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH weston.ini 5 "2013-01-17" "Weston __version__"
.SH NAME
weston.ini \- configuration file for
.B Weston
\- the reference Wayland
compositor
.SH INTRODUCTION
.B Weston
obtains configuration from its command line parameters and the configuration
file described here.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Weston
uses a configuration file called
.I weston.ini
for its setup.
The
.I weston.ini
configuration file is searched for in one of the following places when the
server is started:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.BR "$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/weston.ini   " "(if $XDG_CONFIG_HOME is set)"
.BR "$HOME/.config/weston.ini      " "(if $HOME is set)"
.B  "weston/weston.ini in each"
.BR "\ \ \ \ $XDG_CONFIG_DIR           " "(if $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS is set)"
.BR "/etc/xdg/weston/weston.ini    " "(if $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS is not set)"
.BR "<current dir>/weston.ini      " "(if no variables were set)"
.fi
.RE
.PP
where environment variable
.B $HOME
is the user's home directory, and
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is the user specific configuration directory, and
.B $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS
is a colon
.B ':'
delimited listed of configuration base directories, such as
.BR /etc/xdg-foo:/etc/xdg .
.PP
The
.I weston.ini
file is composed of a number of sections which may be present in any order, or
omitted to use default configuration values. Each section has the form:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.BI [ SectionHeader ]
.RI Key1=Value1
.RI Key2=Value2
    ...
.fi
.RE
.PP
The spaces are significant.
Comment lines are ignored:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.IR "#comment"
.fi
.RE
.PP
The section headers are:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
.BR "core           " "The core modules and options"
.BR "libinput       " "Input device configuration"
.BR "shell          " "Desktop customization"
.BR "launcher       " "Add launcher to the panel"
.BR "output         " "Output configuration"
.BR "input-method   " "Onscreen keyboard input"
.BR "keyboard       " "Keyboard layouts"
.BR "terminal       " "Terminal application options"
.BR "xwayland       " "XWayland options"
.BR "screen-share   " "Screen sharing options"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Possible value types are string, signed and unsigned 32-bit
integer, and boolean. Strings must not be quoted, do not support any
escape sequences, and run till the end of the line. Integers can
be given in decimal (e.g. 123), octal (e.g. 0173), and hexadecimal
(e.g. 0x7b) form. Boolean values can be only 'true' or 'false'.
.RE
.SH "CORE SECTION"
The
.B core
section is used to select the startup compositor modules and general options.
.TP 7
.BI "shell=" desktop-shell.so
specifies a shell to load (string). This can be used to load your own
implemented shell or one with Weston as default. Available shells
in the
.IR "__weston_modules_dir__"
directory are:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR desktop-shell.so
.fi
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "xwayland=" true
ask Weston to load the XWayland module (boolean).
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "modules=" cms-colord.so,screen-share.so
specifies the modules to load (string). Available modules in the
.IR "__weston_modules_dir__"
directory are:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR cms-colord.so
.BR screen-share.so
.fi
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "backend=" headless-backend.so
overrides defaults backend. Available backend modules in the
.IR "__weston_modules_dir__"
directory are:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR drm-backend.so
.BR fbdev-backend.so
.BR headless-backend.so
.BR rdp-backend.so
.BR wayland-backend.so
.BR x11-backend.so
.fi
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "repaint-window=" N
Set the approximate length of the repaint window in milliseconds. The repaint
window is used to control and reduce the output latency for clients. If the
window is longer than the output refresh period, the repaint will be done
immediately when the previous repaint finishes, not processing client requests
in between. If the repaint window is too short, the compositor may miss the
target vertical blank, increasing output latency. The default value is 7
milliseconds. The allowed range is from -10 to 1000 milliseconds. Using a
negative value will force the compositor to always miss the target vblank.
.TP 7
.BI "gbm-format="format
sets the GBM format used for the framebuffer for the GBM backend. Can be
.B xrgb8888,
.B xrgb2101010,
.B rgb565.
By default, xrgb8888 is used.
.RS
.PP
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "idle-time="seconds
sets Weston's idle timeout in seconds. This idle timeout is the time
after which Weston will enter an "inactive" mode and screen will fade to
black. A value of 0 disables the timeout.

.IR Important
: This option may also be set via Weston's '-i' command
line option and will take precedence over the current .ini option. This
means that if both weston.ini and command line define this idle-timeout
time, the one specified in the command-line will be used. On the other
hand, if none of these sets the value, default idle timeout will be
set to 300 seconds.
.RS
.PP
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "require-input=" true
require an input device for launch

.SH "LIBINPUT SECTION"
The
.B libinput
section is used to configure input devices when using the libinput input device
backend.
.PP
Available configuration are:
.TP 7
.BI "enable_tap=" true
enables tap to click on touchpad devices
.RS
.PP

.SH "SHELL SECTION"
The
.B shell
section is used to customize the compositor. Some keys may not be handled by
different shell plugins.
.PP
The entries that can appear in this section are:
.TP 7
.BI "client=" file
sets the path for the shell client to run. If not specified
.I __weston_shell_client__
is launched (string).
.TP 7
.BI "background-image=" file
sets the path for the background image file (string).
.TP 7
.BI "background-type=" tile
determines how the background image is drawn (string). Can be
.BR scale ", " scale-crop " or " tile " (default)."
Scale means scaled to fit the output precisely, not preserving aspect ratio.
Scale-crop preserves aspect ratio, scales the background image just big
enough to cover the output, and centers it. The image ends up cropped from
left and right, or top and bottom, if the aspect ratio does not match the
output. Tile repeats the background image to fill the output.
.TP 7
.BI "background-color=" 0xAARRGGBB
sets the color of the background (unsigned integer). The hexadecimal
digit pairs are in order alpha, red, green, and blue.
.TP 7
.BI "clock-format=" format
sets the panel clock format (string). Can be
.BR "none" ","
.BR "minutes" ","
.BR "seconds" "."
By default, minutes format is used.
.TP 7
.BI "panel-color=" 0xAARRGGBB
sets the color of the panel (unsigned integer). The hexadecimal
digit pairs are in order transparency, red, green, and blue. Examples:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR "0xffff0000    " "Red"
.BR "0xff00ff00    " "Green"
.BR "0xff0000ff    " "Blue"
.BR "0x00ffffff    " "Fully transparent"
.fi
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "panel-position=" top
sets the position of the panel (string). Can be
.B top,
.B bottom,
.B left,
.B right,
.B none.
.TP 7
.BI "locking=" true
enables screen locking (boolean).
.TP 7
.BI "animation=" zoom
sets the effect used for opening new windows (string). Can be
.B zoom,
.B fade,
.B none.
By default, no animation is used.
.TP 7
.BI "close-animation=" fade
sets the effect used when closing windows (string). Can be
.B fade,
.B none.
By default, the fade animation is used.
.TP 7
.BI "startup-animation=" fade
sets the effect used for opening new windows (string). Can be
.B fade,
.B none.
By default, the fade animation is used.
.TP 7
.BI "focus-animation=" dim-layer
sets the effect used with the focused and unfocused windows. Can be
.B dim-layer,
.B none.
By default, no animation is used.
.TP 7
.BI "allow-zap=" true
whether the shell should quit when the Ctrl-Alt-Backspace key combination is
pressed
.TP 7
.BI "binding-modifier=" ctrl
sets the modifier key used for common bindings (string), such as moving
surfaces, resizing, rotating, switching, closing and setting the transparency
for windows, controlling the backlight and zooming the desktop. Possible values:
none, ctrl, alt, super (default)
.TP 7
.BI "num-workspaces=" 6
defines the number of workspaces (unsigned integer). The user can switch
workspaces by using the
binding+F1, F2 keys. If this key is not set, fall back to one workspace.
.TP 7
.BI "cursor-theme=" theme
sets the cursor theme (string).
.TP 7
.BI "cursor-size=" 24
sets the cursor size (unsigned integer).
.TP 7
.BI "lockscreen-icon=" path
sets the path to lock screen icon image (string). (tablet shell only)
.TP 7
.BI "lockscreen=" path
sets the path to lock screen background image (string). (tablet shell only)
.TP 7
.BI "homescreen=" path
sets the path to home screen background image (string). (tablet shell only)
.RE
.SH "LAUNCHER SECTION"
There can be multiple launcher sections, one for each launcher.
.TP 7
.BI "icon=" icon
sets the path to icon image (string). Svg images are not currently supported.
.TP 7
.BI "path=" program
sets the path to the program that is run by clicking on this launcher (string).
It is possible to pass arguments and environment variables to the program. For
example:
.nf
.in +4n

path=GDK_BACKEND=wayland gnome-terminal --full-screen
.in
.fi
.PP
.SH "OUTPUT SECTION"
There can be multiple output sections, each corresponding to one output. It is
currently only recognized by the drm and x11 backends.
.TP 7
.BI "name=" name
sets a name for the output (string). The backend uses the name to
identify the output. All X11 output names start with a letter X.  All
Wayland output names start with the letters WL.  The available
output names for DRM backend are listed in the
.B "weston-launch(1)"
output.
Examples of usage:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR "LVDS1    " "DRM backend, Laptop internal panel no.1"
.BR "VGA1     " "DRM backend, VGA connector no.1"
.BR "X1       " "X11 backend, X window no.1"
.BR "WL1      " "Wayland backend, Wayland window no.1"
.fi
.RE
.RS
.PP
See
.B "weston-drm(7)"
for more details.
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "mode=" mode
sets the output mode (string). The mode parameter is handled differently
depending on the backend. On the X11 backend, it just sets the WIDTHxHEIGHT of
the weston window.
The DRM backend accepts different modes:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR "WIDTHxHEIGHT    " "Resolution size width and height in pixels"
.BR "preferred       " "Uses the preferred mode"
.BR "current         " "Uses the current crt controller mode"
.BR "off             " "Disables the output"
.fi
.RE
.RS
.PP
Optionally, a user may specify a modeline, such as:
.PP
.nf
.in +4n
.nf
173.00  1920 2048 2248 2576  1080 1083 1088 1120 -hsync +vsync
.fi
.in
.PP
It consists of the refresh rate in Hz, horizontal and vertical resolution,
options for horizontal and vertical synchronisation. The program
.B "cvt(1)"
can provide suitable modeline string.
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "transform=" normal
The transformation applied to screen output (string). The transform key can
be one of the following 8 strings:
.PP
.RS 10
.nf
.BR  "normal        " "Normal output."
.BR  "90            " "90 degrees clockwise."
.BR  "180           " "Upside down."
.BR  "270           " "90 degrees counter clockwise."
.BR  "flipped       " "Horizontally flipped"
.BR  "flipped-90    " "Flipped and 90 degrees clockwise"
.BR  "flipped-180   " "Flipped upside down"
.BR  "flipped-270   " "Flipped and 90 degrees counter clockwise"
.fi
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "scale=" factor
The scaling multiplier applied to the entire output, in support of high
resolution ("HiDPI" or "retina") displays, that roughly corresponds to the
pixel ratio of the display's physical resolution to the logical resolution.
Applications that do not support high resolution displays typically appear tiny
and unreadable. Weston will scale the output of such applications by this
multiplier, to make them readable. Applications that do support their own output
scaling can draw their content in high resolution, in which case they avoid
compositor scaling. Weston will not scale the output of such applications, and
they are not affected by this multiplier.
.RE
.RS
.PP
An integer, 1 by default, typically configured as 2 or higher when needed,
denoting the scaling multiplier for the output.
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "seat=" name
The logical seat name that that this output should be associated with. If this
is set then the seat's input will be confined to the output that has the seat
set on it. The expectation is that this functionality will be used in a
multiheaded environment with a single compositor for multiple output and input
configurations. The default seat is called "default" and will always be
present. This seat can be constrained like any other.
.RE
.SH "INPUT-METHOD SECTION"
.TP 7
.BI "path=" "/usr/libexec/weston-keyboard"
sets the path of the on screen keyboard input method (string).
.RE
.RE
.SH "KEYBOARD SECTION"
This section contains the following keys:
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_rules=" "evdev"
sets the keymap rules file (string). Used to map layout and model to input
device.
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_model=" "pc105"
sets the keymap model (string). See the Models section in
.B "xkeyboard-config(7)."
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_layout=" "us,de,gb"
sets the comma separated list of keyboard layout codes (string). See the
Layouts section in
.B "xkeyboard-config(7)."
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_variant=" "euro,,intl"
sets the comma separated list of keyboard layout variants (string). The number
of variants must be the same as the number of layouts above. See the Layouts
section in
.B "xkeyboard-config(7)."
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "keymap_options=" "grp:alt_shift_toggle,grp_led:scroll"
sets the keymap options (string). See the Options section in
.B "xkeyboard-config(7)."
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "repeat-rate=" "40"
sets the rate of repeating keys in characters per second (unsigned integer)
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "repeat-delay=" "400"
sets the delay in milliseconds since key down until repeating starts (unsigned
integer)
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "numlock-on=" "false"
sets the default state of the numlock on weston startup for the backends which
support it.
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "vt-switching=" "true"
Whether to allow the use of Ctrl+Alt+Fn key combinations to switch away from
the compositor's virtual console.
.RE
.RE
.SH "TERMINAL SECTION"
Contains settings for the weston terminal application (weston-terminal). It
allows to customize the font and shell of the command line interface.
.TP 7
.BI "font=" "DejaVu Sans Mono"
sets the font of the terminal (string). For a good experience it is recommended
to use monospace fonts. In case the font is not found, the default one is used.
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "font-size=" "14"
sets the size of the terminal font (unsigned integer).
.RE
.RE
.TP 7
.BI "term=" "xterm-256color"
The terminal shell (string). Sets the $TERM variable.
.RE
.RE
.SH "XWAYLAND SECTION"
.TP 7
.BI "path=" "/usr/bin/Xwayland"
sets the path to the xserver to run (string).
.RE
.RE
.SH "SCREEN-SHARE SECTION"
.TP 7
.BI "command=" "/usr/bin/weston --backend=rdp-backend.so \
--shell=fullscreen-shell.so --no-clients-resize"
sets the command to start a fullscreen-shell server for screen sharing (string).
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR weston (1),
.BR weston-launch (1),
.BR weston-drm (7),
.BR xkeyboard-config (7)
