---
breadcrumbs:
- - /developers
  - For Developers
- - /developers/how-tos
  - How-Tos
- - /developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool
  - The Trace Event Profiling Tool (about:tracing)
page_name: using-frameviewer
title: FrameViewer How-To
---

# *wiltzius@*

For a web application to respond smoothly to user touch input the application
needs to receive input events in JavaScript, react to them, and then allow time
for the browser to render any changes made to the page -- all within a 16ms
frame budget.

This can be challenging, and it can be instructive to look under the hood to see
what the browser is doing each frame. This is what Chromium’s Frame Viewer does,
although it was built with debugging Chrome in mind, not debugging web apps.
Chromium devs and adventurous outsiders may nevertheless be curious what’s
happening in the browser on a per-frame basis.

Prerequisites:

    [Get set up to record
    traces](http://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/recording-tracing-runs);
    recommended to use adb_profile_chrome.py from
    <https://github.com/johnmccutchan/adb_trace> (also in Chrome’s source tree
    under src/tools/perf/)

    Read the [Frame Viewer
    Overview](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/frame-viewer) for
    information on how to record a frame viewer trace, rather than a standard
    trace. The short version is you need a number of non-default tracing
    categories enabled; the easiest way to do this is to use the
    adb_prorfile_chrome script (see above) and pass --trace-frame-viewer to it.

    Frame-viewer only works on the latest versions of Chrome, and with the
    latest rendering architecture. For some features to work both the version of
    Chrome used to view traces and the version used to record traces must be run
    with impl-side-painting enabled (--enable-impl-side-painting), and the
    version of Chrome used to view the trace must be run additionally with
    --enable-skia-benchmarking. See Frame Viewer’s [Getting
    Started](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/frame-viewer) for an
    example command line.

    This entire document assume you know a lot about how the web platform works
    and a lot about how Chrome works. Performance of a sophisticated rendering
    system like a modern browser is very complicated, so please do not use this
    to blindly infer that any particular operation is cheap or expensive --
    rather, use this tool to inform your own experimentation and debugging.

### Simplified Version of Browser Rendering

Before trying to read a Frame Viewer trace, a few fundamentals:

After its loaded, the page changes in response to two inputs: user interaction
mediated by the user agent (default pressed button styles, scrolling, etc) and
updates to the DOM from JavaScript. From there, a cascade of effects through
several rendering sub-systems eventually produces new pixels on the user’s
screen.

The main subsystems are:

    Parsing, which turns a chunk of HTML into DOM nodes

    Style, which resolves CSS on the DOM

    Layout, which figures out where DOM elements end up relative to one another

    Paint setup, sometimes referred to as recording, which converts styled DOM
    elements into a display list (SkPicture) of drawing commands to paint later,
    on a per-layer basis

    Painting, which converts the SkPicture of drawing commands into pixels in a
    bitmap somewhere (either in system memory or on the GPU if using Ganesh)

    Compositing, which assembles all layers into a final screen image

    and, less obviously, the presentation infrastructure responsible for
    actually pushing a new frame to the OS (i.e. the browser UI and its
    compositor, the GPU process which actually communicates with the GL driver,
    etc).

We’ll focus on 1-6; the browser compositor and GPU process take up resources too
but these operations don't map very meaningfully to page content.

Adding a new DOM element that’s visible on-screen will trigger work in every one
of the systems above. In bad cases any one of them can cost tens of milliseconds
(or more), meaning every one of them can be considered a liability for staying
within frame budget.

One way to keep your animations inexpensive is to avoid stages of this pipeline
altogether. For instance, if the DOM remains untouched in a given frame but one
particular &lt;div&gt; changes from a red background to a blue background, no
parsing needs to happen -- but style needs to be updated on at least that
&lt;div&gt;, and because CSS’s inherited nature this can often trigger style
recalculation on other parts of the DOM as well.

Note that user interactions that the browser handles, rather than the
application, are largely unexceptional: clicking a button changes its style
(adding pseudo-classes) and those style changes need to be resolved and later
stages of the pipeline run (e.g. the depressed button state needs to be painted,
and then the page needs to be re-composited with that new painted content).

The browser has multiple threads, and because of the dependencies implied in the
above pipeline which thread an operation runs on matters a lot when it comes to
finding the rendering bottleneck. Style, layout, and some paint setup operations
run on the renderer’s main thread, which is the same place that JavaScript runs.
Parsing gets its own thread (in most cases), as does compositing and painting.

Keep in mind that JavaScript is single threaded and does not yield by default,
which means that JavaScript events, style, and layout operations will block one
another. That means if e.g. the style system is running, Javascript can’t
receive new events. More obviously, it also means that other JavaScript events
(such as a timer firing, or an XHR success callback, etc) will block JS events
that may be very timely -- like touch events. NB this essentially means
applications responding to touch input must consider the JavaScript main thread
the application’s UI thread, and not block it for more than a few milliseconds.

The above explanation simplifies a lot, but should be enough to get going. Two
exceptions worth pointing out though: first, scrolling is “special” in that it
happens outside of the main JavaScript context, and scroll positions are
asynchronously reported back to the main thread and updated in the DOM. This
prevents janky scrolling even if the page executes a lot of JavaScript, but it
can get in the way if the page is well-behaved and wants to respond to
scrolling. Second, the pipeline above isn’t strictly hierarchically ordered --
that is, sometimes you can update style without needing to re-lay-out anything
and without needing to repaint anything. A key example is CSS transforms, which
don’t alter layout and hence can skip directly from style resolution (e.g.
changing the transform offset) to compositing if the necessary content is
already painted.

### Introducing Frameviewer

For the rest of this document to make sense you’ll need to get set up to record
frame viewer traces. See the [Frame Viewer
Overview](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/frame-viewer) for
instructions.

Caveats: Frame Viewer only works on the very latest Chrome rendering
architecture (both for the Chrome where the trace is recorded and the Chrome
where its viewed; see the above link for info on how to get Chrome into that
mode), and it… can be buggy. Don’t say we didn’t warn you.

Let’s start with something simple. Here’s a frame viewer trace of scrolling
mobile.nytimes.com

The trace file being screenshotted in this section is attached to this page, as
are all the traces referenced here, and can be
[downloaded](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/nytimes_scroll_trace)
and opened in about:tracing to follow along.

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/01-followalong.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/01-followalong.png)

Lots of stuff on the screen. Let’s try to make sense of it.

### Navigating the Basic Tracing View

Before even touching the Frame Viewer, let’s examine some standard trace events
as a refresher. There’s more detail in [this
document](http://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/trace-event-reading)
about trace events and how to read them, but it’s a bit stale. Below is an
updated, shortened recap.

#### Processes & Timelines

#### What you’re seeing is Chrome's multi-process architecture at work, scrolling your page. The first thing to notice is that there are three processes running: the browser (pid=16099) and the renderer process for nytimes.com (pid=23360).

#### Each process has a separate horizontal track, filled with trace events. The track is basically an event timeline for events on that thread/process. Events are the colored, rectangular blocks on the timeline tracks. Time moves from left to right.

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/02-lefttoright.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/02-lefttoright.png)

#### Panning and Zooming with the Keyboard

#### **The keyboard can be used to zoom and pan around inside the timeline. The ‘w’ and ‘s’ keys zoom in centered around the mouse, and the ‘a’ and ‘d’ keys pan the timeline left and right.**

#### Trace Events

#### In this case, the data being shown is ~5 seconds. Zooming in on a section of the trace for more detail, we can make out individual trace event records.

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/03-individual%20trace.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/03-individual%20trace.png)

A single rectangle represents a TRACE_EVENT: where it began, and where it ended.
When you see a stack of different rectangles on top of each other, it means that
trace events were issued inside one another on the same thread. For example:

```none
foo() {
```

```none
 sleep 10ms
```

```none
 bar()
```

```none
 sleep 5ms
```

```none
}
```

```none
bar() {
```

```none
 sleep 5ms
```

```none
}
```

Would look like this:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/1.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/1.png)

To study individual rectangles, you can click on them. This will display
information about the rectangle: its Duration, ThreadDuration (CPU time),
SelfTime (time spent in the current slice, subtracting the time of all the
children slices), ThreadSelfTime (CPU time spent in the current slice,
subtracting the CPU time for all the children) and Occurrences (the number of
times that event appeared in the selection). The information is sortable.
Clicking on a title from the info table will expand all the slices for that
event.

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/04-information%20is.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/04-information%20is.png)

For the Foo/Bar example, the SelfTime for Foo will be 15ms (20 - 5), while the
SelfTime for Bar will be 5ms (Since it has no traced children).

The ThreadDuration is not available for all events and for all platforms, the
SelfTime is omitted in cases where the Slice has no known children. Asynchronous
events have no SelfTime by definition.

In addition to clicking, you can drag the mouse in a rectangle over a group of
trace events. This will give you a list of events that intersect that rectangle
and summarize them for you:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/summarize.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/summarize.png)

### Navigating Frame Viewer Mode

What Frame Viewer adds beyond the basic trace event system is a dump of the
page’s state taken each time the renderer produces aframe. This is very useful
when trying to visualize what’s happening from frame to frame. To see the state
of the page’s layer tree for a frame, click one of the green circles along the
top of the Renderer process track:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/process.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/process.png)

You’ll get frames on the bottom of the screen that show the browser’s layer tree
for this frame (on the left) as well as an image of the page with outlines for
all the page’s layers (on the right).

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/2.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/2.png)

Checkboxes in the layer view control what information is included in the page
visualization: the most useful are typically “other layer’s / passes” (to view
the whole page, rather than just the layer selected), “invalidations” which
shows what got dirtied that frame for repainting, and “contents” which attempts
to fill in the actual pixels for each layer by rasterizing the SkPictures for
each layer (the SkPicture being essentially a DisplayList Chrome internally uses
to store paint operations and which also gets dumped along with the layer tree
each frame when frame viewer is on). The “contents” view doesn’t always work
well (e.g. text gets garbled) and you’ll need --enable-skia-benchmarking passed
to whatever Chrome you’re using to view the trace.

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/3.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/3.png)

The layer visualization can get crowded, so the mouse controls are very useful.
You can pan with [<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/4.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/4.png),
zoom in and out with [<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/5.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/5.png),
and rotate (in 3D, because we’re nerds) with [<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/6.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/6.png),
while [<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/7.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/7.png)
allows you to select a layer for more detail about it.

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/8.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/8.png)

When selected everything the compositor knows about the layer is shown in the
bottommost frame. The “layerName” property is interesting because it maps the
layer back to its root element in the DOM, such as div#content or the #document

Selecting an invalidation tells you what layer the invalidation happened on as
well as the invalidation’s bounds. Cross-reference the layer number with one of
the layers in the layer tree on the left for more info about that layer.

Layers with invalidations have SkPictures associated with them. Clicking on the
SkPicture link will show you more information about the relevant SkPicture
recording. You can also access these recordings by selecting the blue dots along
the top of the Renderer’s track in the trace view; the pictures will appear at
different times than the frames because they’re located at the time they got
recorded, rather than the time they were played back to produce a frame. This
might be within the same frame, if an on-screen invalidation occurred that
frame, or it might be much earlier if a picture was recorded and the compositor
has been using the picture to produce frames for some time afterward (this will
happen with composited scrolls and with CSS transform animations in particular,
since the compositor can run these on its own).

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/9.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/9.png)

Frame viewer’s best feature is that is captures all of this information on a
per-frame basis. The arrow keys move between frames while trying to retain the
same view, so you can step through frame by frame and watch layer positions move
with respect to one another or see invalidations appear.

[<img alt="image" src="http://jankfree.org/images/output_optimized_frame.gif"
height=376 width=400>](http://jankfree.org/images/output_optimized_frame.gif)

This information, combined with the timing information encoded in the trace
events, provides a powerful view into the performance of a web application.

### The Critical Path

Taking a trace of a page that makes a change that requires repainting in
response to touch input illustrates the entire pipeline in action (and in this
case, working well).

The traces in this section are all from
[inbox_app.html](http://git.chromium.org/gitweb/?p=chromium/src.git;a=blob_plain;f=tools/perf/page_sets/key_silk_cases/inbox_app.html;hb=HEAD)
in the Silk page set. The trace files used are available here ([normal
trace](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/inbox_normal_trace))
and here ([frameviewer
trace](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/inbox_frameviewer_trace)).

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/10.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/10.png)

Zooming in it’s possible to follow a frame propagating through the Renderer
process:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/11.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/11.png)

*Open the trace file yourself to zoom in further and see individual events*

    Input event comes in from the browser process (not shown, but visible in its
    own track higher up in the trace) and gets delivered to the compositor
    thread. This is a tiny slice in the above trace that includes
    “InputEventFilter::ForwardToHandler”

    The input event gets routed from the compositor thread to the main thread.
    This kicks off Blink’s input event handling, bottoming out in V8 (i.e. the
    JavaScript touchmove event handler running)

    Blink begins a new animation frame, doing some of its own bookkeeping as
    well as calling requestAnimationFrame callback inside of
    “WebViewImpl::animate”

    JavaScript has modified the page since the last frame (presumably either in
    the rAF callback or the input event handler), triggering a layout. The first
    part of this is style recalculation, visible as Document::updateStyle

    Part of the on-screen DOM has been invalidated, so Blink repaints a chunk of
    the screen covering the invalidated area. This records drawing commands into
    an SkPicture, visible in the trace as Picture::Record events. Layer
    properties (such as transforms, scroll offsets, and opacity) are also
    updated in Blink’s copy of the layer tree.

    The new recordings and updated layer tree are transferred from the Blink
    thread to the compositor thread in ThreadProxy::BeginMainFrame::Commit.
    During this time the main thread is blocked on the compositor thread.

    The compositor considers the position of all layers and sorts all of the
    document’s content layer tiles to decide what order to rasterize them (this
    is for prioritization; on-screen tiles get highest priority followed by any
    prepainted tiles that might be on the screen soon). This is the
    ::UpdateTilePriorities and ::ManageTiles

    Some tiles needed for this frame get rasterized in Picture::Raster events
    (this trace is using Ganesh to rasterize tiles, so rasterization occurs on
    the compositor thread and actually represents the generation of GL commands
    for the tile contents, not filling in a bitmap which happens on the GPU).

    Shortly after the rasterization completes the compositor thread’s draw
    deadline arrives, so it does a bunch of bookkeeping to decide where exactly
    to draw each tile on the screen (LayerTreeHostImpl::PrepareToDraw) and then
    sends this frame to the browser compositor (DelegatingRenderer::DrawFrame)
    and swaps the framebuffer (DelegatingRenderer:SwapBuffers)

That’s the event flow, but it’s difficult (/impossible) to look at a trace and
understand what actually changing on-screen in this frame.

This is where Frame Viewer comes in. In a Frame Viewer trace of the same
interaction, inspecting a couple frames around this one shows how the layers are
moving from frame to frame. Here’s one:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/12.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/12.png)

Pressing one of the right/left arrow keys lets us step to the previous/next
frame. Here’s the next one:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/13.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/13.png)

They look almost the same, but the rectangle offset from the others, which is a
layer that’s moving in response to touch input, has changed offsets slightly.
Also note that a different green circle in the list of frames along the top of
the Renderer track is now selected.

It becomes more obvious what’s changing when we enable the “Contents” checkbox:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/14.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/14.png)

Remember from earlier we saw rasterization happen in this frame though, not just
a layer changing position. You can see what got invalidated by turning on the
“Invalidations” checkbox:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/15.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/15.png)

Clicking on the red invalidation rect, we see that it’s for layer 32:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/16.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/16.png)

Selecting layer 32 in the list of layers on the left, or disabling the
invalidations and selecting the layer itself in the viewer rather than the
invalidation rect, tells us more about that layer:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/17.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/17.png)

There’s a lot of information here, but the most interesting is probably the
layerName which links this layer to the DOM; in this case, “RenderBlock
APP-DISMISSABLE-ITEM class='message'”

We can also get more info on the associated SkPicture for this layer for this
frame by clicking the picture link. This opens up the SkPicture debugger:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/18.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/18.png)

Which has a list of all the draw operations stored in the SkPiture on the left
and a timing graph that shows the cost of each draw operations as a vertical
line. Selecting vertical lines will replay the picture up to that point, which
helps identify what a given draw op is doing and letting you understand what the
most expensive draw operations in the SkPicture are.

Important caveat: this works by replaying the SkPicture locally, on the machine
used to view tracing. That means that the timing information will not be an
accurate representation of performance on the device the trace was taken on!
Furthermore, at this point all picture playback in tracing uses the software
rasterizer, even if the picture was actually rastered with Ganesh when
displaying the frame originally! Despite these two big limitations, the picture
debugger can still be helpful to understand relative operation costs.

### Anatomy of a Performance Problem

Lastly, a couple isolated examples of performance problems. A real app usually
has a combination of problems and may go beyond these simple examples, but these
are common bottlenecks shown on their own.

Important caveat: tracing always imposes some amount of overhead on the
browser’s regular operation. This is usually negligible for standard traces, but
Frame Viewer traces are expensive and timing is not necessarily representative
for Frame Viewer traces. It’s more useful to see what’s going on, rather than
how long a particular operation took. In particular the DrawLayers operation on
the compositor thread is expensive since it does most of the frame dump.

#### Excess Javascript / Touch Responsiveness

Remember, the JavaScript main thread is a web app’s UI thread. Here’s an example
where a JS event handler that spends 50ms in V8 during the requestAnimationFrame
callback gets in the way of touch events, causing a long stall in the rendering
pipeline:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/19.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/19.png)

Note the compositor thread is essentially idle during this time since the main
thread can’t run additional JavaScript to process new touch events while its
busy running the long rAF callback. The user would not see a new Renderer frame
during this period (jank).

The compositor is capable of running certain animations on its own (composited
scroll and accelerated CSS animations), which it can run without waiting on JS.
However with a touch event handler registered, as is the case on this page, the
compositor thread must wait on the Blink main thread to process the touch event
before responding to it by e.g. scrolling because JavaScript might call
preventDefault on the touch event.

#### Unexpected Painting

Sometimes the only reasonable way to achieve an effect is to paint, but
sometimes either Blink gets overeager and invalidates more than seems necessary
or JavaScript manipulates style that invalidates more than it needs to.

Frame viewer is great for catching these cases.

For instance, look at this jsfiddle example from the Silk page set:
<http://jsfiddle.net/ugkd4/9/embedded/result/>

Here’s a trace ([trace
file](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/repaint_example_trace))
of that animation running for a few seconds.

It’s supposed to demonstrate performing a clip with composited layers, so there
shouldn’t be any painting going on. Stepping through the frames, though, we
notice an odd invalidation at the beginning of each animation:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/20.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/20.png)

What’s that red rectangle doing there? Clicking on its associated layer and
looking at layerName reveals it as “RenderButton BUTTON id=’button’”

OK, so what’s going on with the button? The main thread frame that produced this
invalidation precedes it in the CrRendererMain timeline, and shows a JavaScript
timer firing:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/21.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/21.png)

This makes sense, since referring to our example code the timer is firing once a
second to restart the animation.

So we know something in that timer’s JS block caused a style recalculation
(visible under the timer’s V8 execution block). Unfortunately there the trail
goes cold, because we don’t know what style change did it. We can start
commenting out style changes and seeing if the invalidation goes away, however.

A few rounds of that later, we have a simple reduction:

<http://jsfiddle.net/3wMzq/1/embedded/result/>

And its [corresponding
trace](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/repaint_example_reduced_trace).

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/22.png">](/developers/how-tos/trace-event-profiling-tool/using-frameviewer/22.png)

Nothing is changing on screen, and we’ve stripped out the additional DOM and all
JavaScript except the empty click handler, which gets called once a second… and
it’s still repainting!

At which point it becomes clear that this is in fact a bug in Chrome, which one
[files](https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=369358).

Happy hacking!