---
breadcrumbs:
- - /developers
  - For Developers
- - /developers/design-documents
  - Design Documents
page_name: password-generation
title: Password Generation
---

**Overview**

Passwords are not a very good form of authentication. They are easy to use but
they are trivial to steal, either through phishing, malware, or a
malicious/incompetent site owner. Furthermore, since people are so apt to reuse
passwords losing one password leaks a substantial amount of your internet
identity.

Chrome's long term solution to this problem is browser sign in plus OpenID.
While implementing browser sign in is something that we can control, getting
most sites on the internet to use OpenID will take a while. In the meantime it
would be nice to have a way to achieve the same affect of having the browser
control authentication. Currently you can mostly achieve this goal through
Password Manager and Browser Sync, but users still know their passwords so they
are still susceptible to phishing. By having Chrome generate passwords for
users, we can remove this problem. In addition to removing the threat of
phishing, automatically generating password is a good way to promote password
manager use, which should be more secure and seamless than manual password
management.

**Design**

**Generating and Updating Passwords**

Detecting when we are on a page that is meant for account sign up will be most
of the technical challenge. This will be accomplished by a combination of local
heuristics and integration with Autofill. In particular, the password manager
will upload information to Autofill servers when a user signs in using a saved
password on a form different from the one it was saved on. This gives a strong
signal that the original form was used for account creation. This data is then
aggregated to determine if the form is or isn't used for account creation. Those
that are will be labeled as such by Autofill. If a signal is received from
Autofill when the form is rendered, we mark the password field. When the users
focuses this field, we show an Autofill like dropdown with a password
suggestion.

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/design-documents/password-generation/GenerationUI.png">](/developers/design-documents/password-generation/GenerationUI.png)

The generated password is generic enough that it works on most sites as is, but
not all sites have the same requirements. Eventually we will use additional
signals to craft the generated password we use, but for now we ease editing by
showing the password if the user focuses the field and also sync any changes
made to the confirm password field (if one exists).

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/design-documents/password-generation/EditingUI.png">](/developers/design-documents/password-generation/EditingUI.png)

The user doesn't need to explicitly save a password that is generated as it
happens automatically, and they should go through the normal password management
experience from that point on.

**Retrieving Passwords**

While generally it's good that users don't know their passwords, there are times
when they will need them such as when they aren't able to use Chrome. For these
cases, we will have a secure password storage web site where users can sign in
and view (and possibly export?) their passwords. Since it should be relatively
rare that users need this, and since this information is valuable, we are
debating adding additional safety checks here, such as a prompt to enable
StrongAuth. TODO(gcasto): Add link once this site is live.

**Implementation**

**Renderer**

PasswordGenerationAgent is responsible for both detecting account creation
password fields and properly filling and updating the passwords depending on the
users interaction with the UI.

**Browser**

PasswordGenerationManager takes messages from the renderer and makes an OS
specific dropdown. This UI use a PasswordGenerator to create a reasonable
password for this site (tries to take in account maxlength attribute, pattern
attribute, etc.). If the password is accepted, it is sent back to the renderer.

**Caveats**

**Users must have password sync enabled**

Since users are not going to know their passwords, we need to be able to
retrieve it for them no matter which computer they are using.

**Not all websites can be protected**

This feature only works for sites that work with both the password manager and
Autofill. Currently this means sites that do signup with only two input fields
(e.g. Netflix) aren't covered since Autofill doesn't upload in this case. It
also means that sites that don't work with the password manager (e.g. sites that
login without navigation) aren't covered.

**Users are only protected for new passwords**

We will not force users to use this feature, we simply suggest it when they sign
up. Eventually we will want to prompt on change password forms as well, though
the password manager currently doesn't have this capability.

**Feature makes Google a higher value hijacking target**

Google is already a high value target so this shouldn't changes much. Moreover
it's easier for us to make logging into Google more secure via StrongAUTH than
have every site on the internet secure itself. At some point in the future it
might also be possible for us to automatically change all of a users passwords
when we realize that their account is hijacked.