---
breadcrumbs:
- - /teams
  - Teams
- - /teams/input-dev
  - Input Team
- - /teams/input-dev/input-objectives
  - Input Objectives
page_name: 2016-okrs
title: 2016 OKRs
---

## 2016 Q4 0.57

### Improve Input Performance 0.46

## Hold the line on input performance P1 0.70

## Intervene on the user’s behalf to improve scrolling performance
#wp-interventions P1 0.45

## Drive adoption of passive event listeners P2 0.20

## Improve Wheel Scroll Performance P2 0.40

## Improve timing of Event Signaling P3 0.50

## Find and Fix Low-Hanging Performance Issues P3 0.10

### Improve understanding of real-world input performance 0.21

## Prototype Input Progressive Web Metrics P1 0.20

## Improve automated input performance testing infrastructure P2 0.00

## Use RAPPOR to collect realtime input performance based on websites P2 0.50

## Measure Impact of Extensions on Input Performance P4 0.00

### Eliminate key developer pain points around input 0.56

## Layout-inert URL bar P1 1.00

## Provide the tools for it to be easier to deal with keyboard input P1 0.50

## Ship ViewportAPI P4 0.00

## Ship CSSOM Smooth Scroll P2 0.30

## document.rootScroller P2 0.50

## Implement overscroll-action API P2 0.80

## Implement ScrollCustomization API P2 0.30

## Drive the Adoption of history.scrollRestoration P4 0.00

## Touch Adjustment - Investigate and propose a solution P4 0.00

### Improve Interoperability of Input Events amongst major browser engines 0.86

## PointerEvents: Successful launch in M55 stable. P1 1.00

## PointerEvents: W3C Spec & Tests P2 1.00

## Test and address interoperability issues in the UI Event Spec P2 0.50

## Historical Points API P3 0.60

## Successfuly Ship auxclick in M55 P3 1.00

### Product Excellence 0.72

## Ship Material Design “overlay” scrollbars P1 0.70

## Be responsive to our users concerns P1 0.90

## Ship Scroll anchoring P1 1.00

## Enable input automation of individual pointers P1 0.70

## Using WebDriver for automated testing with input P1 0.30

## Quantify causes of Hung Renderer Crashes when it is completely idle P1 1.00

## Ignore clicks on recently-moved iframes (crbug.com/603193) P2 0.40

## PointerEvents: Reduce bug backlog for mouse & touch P2 0.85

## PointerEvents: Improve stylus support P2 0.50

## Ship unified OSK viewport behavior between Android and CrOS P4 0.00

### Improve Input Code Health 0.29

## Remove Artificial Layering in the Input Pipeline P2 0.60

## Consolidate pointer-type events in Chromium P2 0.00

## Overhaul Chrome Autoscroll P2 0.00

## Mojoifcation Architecture (Salamander) P3 0.00

## Make Keyboard scroll events to be gesture based events P4 0.00

## Use Proper Time Types for Events P2 0.80

## 2016 Q3 0.65

### Improve input performance 0.74

## No regressions in key metrics that last more than a single milestone P1 0.80

## Force touchstart event listeners to be passive during fling by M54 (behind
finch trial) P1 1.00

## Launch root scroller intervention behind a finch trial in M54 P1 1.00

## Ratchet up root scroller intervention to 100% before end of quarter P4 0.20

## Add intervention forcing event listeners to be passive for unresponsive main
thread (Finch trial in M54) P2 0.40

## Eliminate multiple queuing points for mouse and touch events and deliver most
up to date information P1 1.00

## Implement RAF aligned input on the main thread as an runtime enabled feature
P2 1.00

## Draft design doc for VSync aligned compositor input handling P1 1.00

## Implement VSync aligned input for compositor gesture scroll and pinch behind
finch trial P1 0.50

## Analyze VSync aligned compositor input performance metrics from finch trial
data P2 0.00

## Reduce the 99'th percentile of first gesture scroll update latency on Nexus 5
by 30% on the best finch trial P2 1.00

## Find owners for 5 issues discovered through current input latency perf report
P3 0.00

## Ship scroll latching for touchpad behind a flag on all platforms P1 0.40

### Improve understanding of real-world input performance 0.63

## Author document precisely describing Progressive Web Metric for estimated
input latency P1 0.70

## Progressive Web Metric for estimated input latency landed in at least 1 form.
P2 0.80

## Share data on the realism / reproducibility tradeoff in telemetry input
tests. P2 0.00

## Run all of the current touch event latency reports on Chrome Trace Processor
P3 0.00

## Implement TBMv2 versions of touch input telemetry metrics P3 0.80

## Get touchpad scroll latency regressions as actionable as touch scroll
regressions P3 1.00

## Progressive Web Metric for time to interactive landed in at least 1 form. P2
1.00

### Eliminate key developer pain points around input 0.45

## Complete Root Scrollers implementation behind a flag in M54 P1 0.80

## Create compelling demo showing benefit of RootScroller API and publish it
with devrel P3 0.50

## Ship API to expose visual viewport information to developers in M54 P1 0.60

## Investigate touch adjustment and find a solution to coordinate touch events
and click event P2 0.00

## Implement position:device-fixed behind a flag for M55 P4 0.00

## Ship non-layout affecting URL bar in M55 P2 0.00

## Draft spec on method for developers to control which virtual keyboard is
shown P2 0.70

## Ship API to control Chrome pull-to-refresh nav gesture behind a flag in M55
P2 0.30

## \[Stretch\] Contribute history.scrollRestoration patch to Webkit P4 0.00

### Improve Interoperability of Input Events amongst major browser engines 0.78

## Ship non-primary button click event in M54 P2 0.90

## Update InputEvent implementation and design doc based on the currently
published specification by M54 P2 0.80

## Continue implementing the simple rich text editor using ContentEditable and
InputEvent P2 0.80

## Remove keyIdentifier from Blink in M54 P2 1.00

## Remove coordinates from TouchEvent \[WebKit\] P3 0.00

### Product Excellence 0.76

## Maintain Burndown of Hotlist-Input-Dev by closing 15 more issues than were
incoming rate P1 0.90

## End quarter with no P0,P1 issues that we started the quarter with P1 1.00

## Input-Dev PE FixIt Week in August P2 1.00

## Triage all new Blink&gt;Input, Blink&gt;Scroll issues within 7 days P1 1.00

## Scroll anchoring - shippable prototype and WICG spec with initial round of
feedback P1 0.65

## Conduct analysis and add necessary information to drive resolution to
Renderer Hung Crashes P1 0.40

## Improve touchpad user experience on Windows devices P3 0.00

## Ship unified OSK viewport behavior between Android and CrOS for M55 P2 0.60

### Improve Input Code Health 0.55

## Combine PlatformEvent and WebInputEvent P2 0.30

## WebMouseEvent becoming a pointer event API: design doc on an incremental impl
plan, land initial patches P3 1.00

## Improve TouchEventQueue sync with renderer P4 0.00

## Create & minimally plumb PlatformPointerEvent P4 0.20

## Refactor mouse code out of EventHandler & its submodules into
MouseEventManager P3 1.00

## Make PointerEvents the driver for mouse code in EventHandler P3 0.90

## Use better types for time for Events in blink P4 0.00

### PointerEvent API is ready to ship 0.91

## Analyze compatibility with Edge for 25 sites using pointer events 1.00

## Run a Finch trial with PointerEvents enabled P1 1.00

## Hackathon@MS P1 1.00

## Share implicit pointer capture compat data and our proposed plan with PEWG P1
1.00

## Consensus in PEWG on the precise design Chrome should try shipping (covered
by open PRs) P2 1.00

## Drive committing fixes for 20 PEWG spec issues via participation in github
and regular calls P2 1.00

## Resolve all P0 and P1 launch blocking bugs P2 1.00

## W3C PointerEvent Tests: Complete automation through script injection P1 1.00

## W3C PointerEvent Tests: Run on all platforms with all pointer types, report
the outcome to PEWG P2 0.99

## W3C PointerEvent Tests: land 10 pull requests in github to improve test
coverage/quality P3 1.00

## PointerEvents fully automatable without the use of event sender P1 0.90

## Support fractional co-ordinates in PointerEvents, update Blink MouseEvent as
needed P3 0.10

## Stylus low level events: all events received in Blink for Mac, Windows and
CrOS P2 0.20

## Stylus properties: complete plumbing of tilt & pressure for Windows, CrOS,
Android and Mac P3 0.60

## Create a doc on consistent stylus interactions P4 0.00

## STRETCH: Turn pointer events on by default on trunk P4 1.00

### Drive adoption of passive event listeners 0.36

## Reduce fraction of touch events unnecessarily blocking scroll from 43% to 35%
P1 0.00

## Add ability to discover scroll blocking event handlers easy in devtools P2
0.00

## 2016 Q2 0.66

### Improve scroll latency and smoothness 0.50

## No regressions in key metrics that last more than a single milestone P1 1.00

## Reach (data-driven) consensus on plan for touch scrolling intervention
(replacing touch ACK timeout) P1 0.70

## Ship initial conservative touch scrolling intervention via Finch by M53 P1
0.20

## Make touchstart events during fling nonblocking by M53 (behind finch trial)
P2 0.00

## Reduce the 99'th percentile of first gesture scroll update latency on Nexus 5
by 30% P2 0.20

## Add DevTools Support for Passive Event Listeners by M53 P2 0.90

## Fix 3 smooth scroll performance bugs by M53 P2 0.70

## Implement vsync aligned gestures in M53 P2 0.00

## Implement vsync aligned touch input in M53 \[Stretch\] P4 0.00

### Improve understanding of real-world input performance 0.73

## Measure efficiency gain and breakage caused by 5 possible touch scrolling
intervention approaches. P1 0.65

## Expose touch scroll latency information through devtools by M53 P1 1.00

## Add non-scrolling input performance metrics by M53 P2 1.00

## Improve on the current touch event latency reports P2 0.80

## Evaluate and Implement strategy for not calculating event path, and
dispatching event if no listeners P2 0.00

### Eliminate key developer pain points around input 0.35

## non-Document root scrollers implementation complete (behind a flag) in M52 P1
0.30

## Ship non-layout-affecting top control resizes in M53 P3 0.00

## Ship API to expose visual viewport information to developers in M52 P2 0.70

## Ship unified OSK viewport behavior between Android and CrOS for M53 P3 0.00

## Draft spec on method for developers to control which virtual keyboard is
shown P2 0.00

## Design for ignoring clicks on iframes that have moved recently P2 0.60

## Implement position:device-fixed (behind a flag) as a way to attach elements
to the visual viewport P3 0.00

## Draft spec an API to control Chrome pull-to-refresh nav gesture behind a flag
P2 0.80

## Contribute history.scrollRestoration patch to Webkit P4 0.00

### Improve Interoperability of Input Events amongst major browser engines 0.81

## Implement InputEvent beforeinput (behind a flag) based on the provisional
specification in M52 P1 0.90

## Implement InputEvent input (behind a flag) based on the provisional
specification in M53 P1 0.80

## Make pointer event tests automatically run on Chrome on all platforms P1 0.80

## Add low level touch event API to Chromedriver in M53 P2 0.70

## Fix 8 Keyboard related interop bugs in backlog P2 0.60

## Make sure the order of composition events and input events matches spec in
M52 P2 0.90

## Contribute WebPlatform Tests for Editing beforeinput/input and composition
events P2 0.80

## Implement HTMLSelect ability to programmatically open in M52 behind a flag P4
0.00

## Enable non-manual uievents and domevents webplatform tests P2 1.00

## Investigate in re-using Touch instances as Safari does P3 1.00

## Deprecate executing default action on Untrusted events P2 1.00

## Implement a simple rich text editor using ContentEditable and InputEvent P2
0.60

### Product Excellence 0.85

## End quarter with no P0,P1's older than 90 days P1 0.80

## Triage all new Blink-Input, Blink-Scroll bugs within 7 days P1 1.00

## Scroll anchoring - shippable prototype and WICG spec with initial round of
feedback P1 0.50

## Increase burndown of issues. Close 10 more hotlist input dev bugs than the
incoming rate. P1 1.00

## Ship stricter user gestures for touch intervention in M52 P1 0.90

## All Hotlist=Input-Dev bugs with &gt;= 15 stars have an OWNER P1 0.90

### Improve Input Code Health 0.55

## Refactor EditorCommand to use an enum class in M52 P2 1.00

## Propose and Implement removal of WebInputEvent &lt;--&gt; PlaformEvent
conversion P2 0.30

## Refactor IME keyboard event generation code to be common across all platforms
P4 0.00

## Improve situation around Blink scroll offset type P4 0.00

## Refactor main thread touch and wheel scrolling paths to use scroll
customization machinery P2 1.00

## Improve usage of time unit types for event timestamp P2 1.00

## Consensus on a plan for WebMouseEvent to become a pointer event API. P2 0.00

## Improve TouchEventQueue sync with renderer P2 0.00

## Design a modular EventHandler P2 1.00

## Update MouseEvent (and so PointerEvent) to support fractional co-ordinates.
P3 0.25

### PointerEvent API is feature-complete with major developers' concerns addressed. 0.80

## Fix redundant pointercancel bug with touch-action in M51. P0 0.90

## Enable developers’ testing of PointerEvent in M52, address community
feedback. P0 1.00

## Fix interaction issues between PE's explicit capture & TE's implicit capture.
P1 1.00

## Analyze compatibility with Edge for top 20 sites using pointer events P1 0.80

## Drive the open PEWG spec issues down from 21 to 10 via participation in
github and regular calls. P2 0.70

## Share implicit pointer capture compat data and our proposed plan with WG. P2
0.25

## Improve test infrastructure & coverage P2 0.60

## Create a doc on consistent stylus interactions. P2 0.20

## Blink is receiving all stylus events on 2 platforms by EOQ P3 0.40

### Drive adoption of passive event listeners 0.51

## Reduce fraction of touch events unnecessarily blocking scroll from 47% to 30%
P0 0.15

## Publish usage guidance with assistance from DevRel in time for M51 stable
release P1 1.00

## Get 4 major partners to make their touch listeners passive P0 0.20

## Land the EventListenerOptions feature detect in Modernizr P2 1.00

## Passive touch listeners are promoted at Google I/O P2 1.00

## Add chrome://flags entry forcing all touch listeners (or all page-wide touch
listeners) to be passive P2 1.00

## Publish comparison of real world scroll start performance with passive
listeners and blocking listeners P3 1.00

## 2016 Q1 0.60

### Improve scroll latency and smoothness 0.65

## Ship Passive Event Listeners in M50 P0 0.90

## Land passive event listener interop tests in web-platform-test P2 0.00

## 4 important external partners actively experimenting with passive event
listeners P2 0.20

## Reach (data-driven) consensus on plan for touch scrolling intervention
(replacing touch ACK timeout) P2 0.20

## Get consensus on TouchEvents spec change for async touchmove and passive
listeners P2 1.00

## Land performance optimization for passive wheel listeners P3 1.00

### Improve understanding of real-world input performance 0.62

## Add non-scrolling input performance metrics P1 0.60

## Use slow reports to measure efficiency gain and breakage caused by possible
touch ack timeout approaches. P1 0.20

## Expose touch scroll latency information through devtools P1 0.20

## Quantify our objective of fixing scroll blocking P1 1.00

## Expose hardware input timestamps to the web P1 1.00

## Use slow reports to generate initial breakdown of where input handling logic
spends time P2 1.00

## Add touch scroll latency metric measuring until estimated vsync time
(STRETCH) P4 0.00

### Eliminate key developer pain points around input 0.61

## Fix at least 100 Hotlist-InputDev bugs P1 1.00

## Triage any new Blink-Input, Blink-Scroll bug within 7 days P1 1.00

## Solution to non-document root scroller problem landed behind a flag in M51 P1
0.25

## Implement unified OSK viewport behavior between Android and CrOS for M50
behind a flag P2 0.80

## Provide a way for developers to attach elements to the visual viewport P2
0.20

## Land change to top control resizes to be more user friendly and Safari
compatible in M50 P2 0.25

## \[STRETCH\] Spec an API to control Chrome pull-to-refresh nav gesture behind
a flag P4 0.00

## Spec an API to expose visual viewport information to developers P2 0.50

### Improve input interoperability between major browser engines 0.65

## Enable automated input testing on Chrome for W3C web-platform-tests P1 0.35

## Ship KeyboardEvent.key P1 1.00

## Reduce UI Events spec bug count to under 25 P2

## Reach consensus across vendors on an updated plan for ScrollTopLeftInterop P4
0.00

## Triage all Hotlist-Interop bugs and find appropriate owners every week P2
0.70

## Land scroll restoration interop tests in web-platform-test P2 1.00

## Update HTMLSelectElement.open proposal and get buy in from other vendors. P3
0.00

### PointerEvent API implementation is feature-complete 0.53

## Fix redundant pointercancel bug with touch-action. P1 0.65

## Enable developers’ testing of PointerEvent, address community feedback. P2
0.20

## Implement explicit pointer capture support. P1 0.75

## Report to WG the outcome of all w3c tests except the ones for pointer
capture. P2 0.80

## Measure compatibility with Edge for top 20 sites using pointer events P2 0.10

## Share implicit pointer capture compat data and our proposed plan with WG. P3
0.20

## Update MouseEvent (and so PointerEvent) to support fractional co-ordinates P3
0.00

## Add pointer event handler tracking P3 1.00

### Improve support for text input via IMEs 0.40

## Implement and ship InputEvent P2 0.60

## Complete specification for input and beforeinput events P2

## Implement beforeInput (behind a flag) for Linux P2 0.30

## Contribute WebPlatform Tests for Editing beforeinput/input and composition
events P2 0.30

### Improve input code health 0.50

## Refactor MouseWheel scroll events to be gesture based events P2 1.00

## Extend WebMouseEvent to become a pointer event API P2 0.00

## Remove logic for touch scroll chaining P3 0.20

## Complete both outstanding viewport refactorings P3 0.00

## Refactor necessary code for input to actually send InputEvent from Editing
specification P2 0.40

## Refactor Event.dispatchEvent to return an enumeration P2 1.00