---
breadcrumbs:
- - /developers
  - For Developers
- - /developers/design-documents
  - Design Documents
page_name: multi-process-architecture
title: Multi-process Architecture
---

This document describes Chromium's high-level architecture.

## Problem

It's nearly impossible to build a rendering engine that never crashes or hangs.
It's also nearly impossible to build a rendering engine that is perfectly
secure.

In some ways, the state of web browsers around 2006 was like that of the
single-user, co-operatively multi-tasked operating systems of the past. As a
misbehaving application in such an operating system could take down the entire
system, so could a misbehaving web page in a web browser. All it took is one
browser or plug-in bug to bring down the entire browser and all of the currently
running tabs.

Modern operating systems are more robust because they put applications into
separate processes that are walled off from one another. A crash in one
application generally does not impair other applications or the integrity of the
operating system, and each user's access to other users' data is restricted.

## Architectural overview

We use separate processes for browser tabs to protect the overall application
from bugs and glitches in the rendering engine. We also restrict access from
each rendering engine process to others and to the rest of the system. In some
ways, this brings to web browsing the benefits that memory protection and access
control brought to operating systems.

We refer to the main process that runs the UI and manages tab and plugin
processes as the "browser process" or "browser." Likewise, the tab-specific
processes are called "render processes" or "renderers." The renderers use the
[Blink](/blink) open-source layout engine for interpreting and laying out HTML.

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/design-documents/multi-process-architecture/arch.png">](/developers/design-documents/multi-process-architecture/arch.png)

### Managing render processes

Each render process has a global `RenderProcess` object that manages
communication with the parent browser process and maintains global state. The
browser maintains a corresponding `RenderProcessHost` for each render process,
which manages browser state and communication for the renderer. The browser and
the renderers communicate using [Chromium's IPC
system](/developers/design-documents/inter-process-communication).

### Managing views

Each render process has one or more `RenderView` objects, managed by the
`RenderProcess`, which correspond to tabs of content. The corresponding
`RenderProcessHost` maintains a `RenderViewHost` corresponding to each view in
the renderer. Each view is given a view ID that is used to differentiate
multiple views in the same renderer. These IDs are unique inside one renderer
but not within the browser, so identifying a view requires a `RenderProcessHost`
and a view ID. Communication from the browser to a specific tab of content is
done through these `RenderViewHost` objects, which know how to send messages
through their `RenderProcessHost` to the `RenderProcess` and on to the
`RenderView`.

## Components and interfaces

In the render process:

*   The `RenderProcess` handles IPC with the corresponding
            `RenderProcessHost` in the browser. There is exactly one
            `RenderProcess` object per render process. This is how all browser ↔
            renderer communication happens.
*   The `RenderView` object communicates with its corresponding
            `RenderViewHost` in the browser process (via the RenderProcess), and
            our WebKit embedding layer. This object represents the contents of
            one web page in a tab or popup window

In the browser process:

*   The `Browser` object represents a top-level browser window.
*   The `RenderProcessHost` object represents the browser side of a
            single browser ↔ renderer IPC connection. There is one
            `RenderProcessHost` in the browser process for each render process.
*   The `RenderViewHost` object encapsulates communication with the
            remote `RenderView`, and RenderWidgetHost handles the input and
            painting for RenderWidget in the browser.

For more detailed information on how this embedding works, see the [How Chromium
displays web
pages](/developers/design-documents/displaying-a-web-page-in-chrome) design
document.

## Sharing the render process

In general, each new window or tab opens in a new process. The browser will
spawn a new process and instruct it to create a single `RenderView`.

Sometimes it is necessary or desirable to share the render process between tabs
or windows. A web application opens a new window that it expects to communicate
with synchronously, for example, using window.open in JavaScript. In this case,
when we create a new window or tab, we need to reuse the process that the window
was opened with. We also have strategies to assign new tabs to existing
processes if the total number of processes is too large, or if the user already
has a process open navigated to that domain. These strategies are described in
[Process Models](/developers/design-documents/process-models).

## Detecting crashed or misbehaving renderers

Each IPC connection to a browser process watches the process handles. If these
handles are signaled, the render process has crashed and the tabs are notified
of the crash. For now, we show a "sad tab" screen that notifies the user that
the renderer has crashed. The page can be reloaded by pressing the reload button
or by starting a new navigation. When this happens, we notice that there is no
process and create a new one.

## Sandboxing the renderer

Given the renderer is running in a separate process, we have the opportunity to
restrict its access to system resources via
[sandboxing](/developers/design-documents/sandbox). For example, we can ensure
that the renderer's only access to the network is via its parent browser
process. Likewise, we can restrict its access to the filesystem using the host
operating system's built-in permissions.

In addition to restricting the renderer's access to the filesystem and network,
we can also place limitations on its access to the user's display and related
objects. We run each render process on a separate Windows
"[Desktop](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms682573(v=vs.85).aspx)"
which is not visible to the user. This prevents a compromised renderer from
opening new windows or capturing keystrokes.

## Giving back memory

Given renderers running in separate processes, it becomes straightforward to
treat hidden tabs as lower priority. Normally, minimized processes on Windows
have their memory automatically put into a pool of "available memory." In
low-memory situations, Windows will swap this memory to disk before it swaps out
higher-priority memory, helping to keep the user-visible programs more
responsive. We can apply this same principle to hidden tabs. When a render
process has no top-level tabs, we can release that process's "working set" size
as a hint to the system to swap that memory out to disk first if necessary.
Because we found that reducing the working set size also reduces tab switching
performance when the user is switching between two tabs, we release this memory
gradually. This means that if the user switches back to a recently used tab,
that tab's memory is more likely to be paged in than less recently used tabs.
Users with enough memory to run all their programs will not notice this process
at all: Windows will only actually reclaim such data if it needs it, so there is
no performance hit when there is ample memory.

This helps us get a more optimal memory footprint in low-memory situations. The
memory associated with seldom-used background tabs can get entirely swapped out
while foreground tabs' data can be entirely loaded into memory. In contrast, a
single-process browser will have all tabs' data randomly distributed in its
memory, and it is impossible to separate the used and unused data so cleanly,
wasting both memory and performance.

## Plug-ins and Extensions

Firefox-style NPAPI plug-ins ran in their own process, separate from renderers.
This is described in detail in [Plugin
Architecture](/developers/design-documents/plugin-architecture).

The [Site Isolation](/developers/design-documents/site-isolation) project aims
to provide more isolation between renderers, an early deliverable for this
project includes running Chrome's HTML/JavaScript content extensions in isolated
processes.