---
breadcrumbs:
- - /Home
  - Chromium
- - /Home/chromium-security
  - Chromium Security
page_name: core-principles
title: Core Principles
---

### Help users safely navigate the web.

Ensuring user safety means carefully balancing usability, capability and
security. If we’re doing it right, these aspects should all work hand-in-hand.
In most cases, we want security to be nearly invisible to the user. We update
transparently and try to provide safe defaults without asking users to make
security decisions. When [security
indicators](http://support.google.com/chrome/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=95617)
are surfaced, we aim to clearly explain the situation and highlight the most
important information, such as the hostname and SSL state in the address bar.

### Design for defense in depth (and more depth).

Our goal in designing Chrome’s security architecture was to layer defenses, and
avoid single points of failure. Chrome’s sandbox architecture represents one of
the most effective parts of this strategy, but it’s far from the only piece. We
also employ the best available anti-exploit technologies—including
[ASLR](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Address_space_layout_randomization),
[DEP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_Execution_Prevention), [JIT
hardening](http://www.matasano.com/research/Attacking_Clientside_JIT_Compilers_Paper.pdf#page=24),
and [SafeSEH](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/9a89h429.aspx)—along with
custom technologies like [Safe
Browsing](http://code.google.com/apis/safebrowsing/), [out-of-date plugin
blocking](http://support.google.com/chrome/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=1181003),
silent auto-update, and [verified
boot](/chromium-os/chromiumos-design-docs/verified-boot) on Chrome OS. And we
continue to work towards advancing the state of the art with research into areas
like per-origin sandboxing and control flow integrity.

### Security is a team responsibility.

There’s a common misconception that security can be handled as a feature or
add-on component. The fact is that security of any complex piece of software is
a cross-cutting concern, determined by millions of seemingly innocuous decisions
being made by developers every day. That’s why it’s essential for every team
member to be aware of secure development practices, and work with their security
team throughout the lifecycle of the project. This general awareness helps
supplement our normal security review process of auditing, regression testing,
and fuzzing.

### Speed matters.

User safety depends on quickly turning around security issues, regardless of
whether a vulnerability is discovered internally or reported by a third party.
We are committed to promptly addressing all security issues, and delivering
fixes to our users via our fast automatic update process. This approach has
allowed us to maintain an [industry-leading response
time](http://www.accuvant.com/sites/default/files/images/webbrowserresearch_v1_0.pdf#page=24)
to security vulnerabilities—even when dealing with such a complex and
politically charged issue as an irresponsible root Certificate Authority.

### Be transparent.

We do not downplay security impact or bury vulnerabilities with silent fixes,
because doing so serves users poorly. Instead, we provide users and
administrators with the information they need to accurately assess risk. We
publicly document our [security handling
proces](/Home/chromium-security/security-bug-lifecycle)[s](/Home/chromium-security/security-bug-lifecycle),
and we disclose all vulnerabilities fixed in Chrome and its dependencies—whether
discovered internally or externally. Whenever possible, we list all fixed
security issues in our [release
notes](http://googlechromereleases.blogspot.com/), and make the underlying
details public as soon as other affected projects have an adequate amount of
time to respond. When we do not control the disclosure timeline for a security
issue and cannot list it at the time of release, we make the details of the
issue public as soon as disclosure occurs.

### Engage the community.

No software is perfect, and security bugs slip through even the best development
and review processes. That’s why we’re grateful for the work of the independent
security research community in helping us find and fix vulnerabilities. In
response, we do our best to [acknowledge](/Home/chromium-security/hall-of-fame)
and [reward](/Home/chromium-security/vulnerability-rewards-program) their
contributions by ensuring proper attribution, paying out bounties, and
sponsoring security conferences. We leverage the community to even greater
extent where we can, by hiring members directly onto our team and contracting
with industry leading, independent security consultancies.

### Make the web safer for everyone.

Security is not a zero-sum game. One browser does not succeed in security at the
cost of others, and we’re all better off when the best security technologies and
techniques are employed by everyone. To that end, we work closely with standards
bodies and other browser makers to raise the bar by collaborating on various
standards, including [public key
pinning](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-websec-key-pinning-01), [Content
Security Policies](http://www.w3.org/TR/CSP/), and [SPDY](/spdy). We also open
source or otherwise make our security technologies widely available (e.g.
[Native Client](/nativeclient) / Pepper, [Open Type
Sanitizer](https://code.google.com/p/ots/), [application
sandboxing](/developers/design-documents/sandbox), and [Safe
Browsing](https://code.google.com/apis/safebrowsing/)).