third_party/blink/web_tests/virtual/not-site-per-process/README.md, before:

# virtual/not-site-per-process

## Summary

Layout tests use the default site isolation from the platform they are
run on.  For example, strict site isolation (aka site-per-process) is
used on desktop platforms.

Additionally, on platforms where strict site isolation is enabled,
layout tests opt into slightly stricter isolation and enabling isolating
same-site origins used by Web Platform Tests. This ensures that features
covered by WPT also provide sufficient coverage of how these feature
behave in presence of out-of-process iframes.

Tests under `virtual/not-site-per-process` are run with
`--disable-site-isolation-trials` cmdline flag which turns off site
isolation.  This is needed to preserve test coverage provided by around
60 tests that fail when run with site isolation.

When modifying the list of files that behave differently with and without
OOPIFs, please consider modifying all the locations below:
- LayoutTests/VirtualTestSuites (virtual/not-site-per-process suite)
- LayoutTests/virtual/not-site-per-process/README.md
- LayoutTests/TestExpectations and/or LayoutTests/NeverFixTests
  ("Site Isolation failures" section)


## Tests incompatible with WPT origin isolation

The following tests modify `document.domain` and are therefore incompatible with
isolation of WPT origins.  The tests need to stay under
`virtual/not-site-per-process` forever.  These tests are covered by
`LayoutTests/NeverFixTests` expectations file.

- external/wpt/html/browsers/origin/relaxing-the-same-origin-restriction
- external/wpt/FileAPI/url/multi-global-origin-serialization.sub.html
- external/wpt/dom/events/EventListener-incumbent-global-1.sub.html
- external/wpt/dom/events/EventListener-incumbent-global-2.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/browsers/history/the-location-interface/allow_prototype_cycle_through_location.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/browsers/history/the-location-interface/location-prototype-setting-same-origin-domain.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/browsers/origin/cross-origin-objects/cross-origin-objects-on-new-window.html
- external/wpt/html/browsers/the-windowproxy-exotic-object/windowproxy-prototype-setting-same-origin-domain.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/infrastructure/safe-passing-of-structured-data/shared-array-buffers/window-domain-success.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/infrastructure/safe-passing-of-structured-data/shared-array-buffers/window-similar-but-cross-origin-success.sub.html
- external/wpt/wasm/serialization/module/window-domain-success.sub.html
- external/wpt/wasm/serialization/module/window-similar-but-cross-origin-success.sub.html

## Tests that need further investigation and/or decisions

Remaining tests need further investigation as they may either 1) hide
previously unknown OOPIF-related bugs or 2) expose known OOPIF-related
differences in product behavior or 3) expose known OOPIF-support issues
in tests or in the test harness.  Over time, such tests should be
removed from `virtual/not-site-per-process`.  These tests are covered
by `LayoutTests/TestExpectations` file.

Commit message:

Adapt isolated-code-cache web tests to partitioned HTTP Cache
The not-site-per-process isolated-code-cache web tests currently assume
that cross-origin resources are cached when code cache site isolation is
not active. This causes them to fail when the HTTP Cache is partitioned
by Network Isolation Key. We thus disable the partitioned HTTP Cache for
those tests and add a new test for when site isolation is not active,
but the HTTP Cache is still partitioned.

Bug: 1009628
Change-Id: I0d5d438d9564d3f659b93484a5bcc8aa56d2cd26
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/1865421
Reviewed-by: Shivani Sharma <shivanisha@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Nico Weber <thakis@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Alex Turner <alexmt@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#707360}

Former-commit-id: 3a9215b34f434729eb4bac831dffa890d7c1e5f6

third_party/blink/web_tests/virtual/not-site-per-process/README.md, after:

# virtual/not-site-per-process

## Summary

Layout tests use the default site isolation from the platform they are
run on.  For example, strict site isolation (aka site-per-process) is
used on desktop platforms.

Additionally, on platforms where strict site isolation is enabled,
layout tests opt into slightly stricter isolation and enabling isolating
same-site origins used by Web Platform Tests. This ensures that features
covered by WPT also provide sufficient coverage of how these feature
behave in presence of out-of-process iframes.

Tests under `virtual/not-site-per-process` are run with
`--disable-site-isolation-trials` cmdline flag which turns off site
isolation.  This is needed to preserve test coverage provided by around
60 tests that fail when run with site isolation. `isolated-code-cache` tests are
also run with `--disable-features=SplitCacheByNetworkIsolationKey` which turns
off HTTP cache partitioning. This is needed as a test expects cross-origin
resources to be cached. Equivalent tests with the feature enabled can be found
under `virtual/split-http-cache-not-site-per-process`.

When modifying the list of files that behave differently with and without
OOPIFs, please consider modifying all the locations below:
- LayoutTests/VirtualTestSuites (virtual/not-site-per-process suite)
- LayoutTests/virtual/not-site-per-process/README.md
- LayoutTests/TestExpectations and/or LayoutTests/NeverFixTests
  ("Site Isolation failures" section)


## Tests incompatible with WPT origin isolation

The following tests modify `document.domain` and are therefore incompatible with
isolation of WPT origins.  The tests need to stay under
`virtual/not-site-per-process` forever.  These tests are covered by
`LayoutTests/NeverFixTests` expectations file.

- external/wpt/html/browsers/origin/relaxing-the-same-origin-restriction
- external/wpt/FileAPI/url/multi-global-origin-serialization.sub.html
- external/wpt/dom/events/EventListener-incumbent-global-1.sub.html
- external/wpt/dom/events/EventListener-incumbent-global-2.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/browsers/history/the-location-interface/allow_prototype_cycle_through_location.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/browsers/history/the-location-interface/location-prototype-setting-same-origin-domain.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/browsers/origin/cross-origin-objects/cross-origin-objects-on-new-window.html
- external/wpt/html/browsers/the-windowproxy-exotic-object/windowproxy-prototype-setting-same-origin-domain.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/infrastructure/safe-passing-of-structured-data/shared-array-buffers/window-domain-success.sub.html
- external/wpt/html/infrastructure/safe-passing-of-structured-data/shared-array-buffers/window-similar-but-cross-origin-success.sub.html
- external/wpt/wasm/serialization/module/window-domain-success.sub.html
- external/wpt/wasm/serialization/module/window-similar-but-cross-origin-success.sub.html

## Tests that need further investigation and/or decisions

Remaining tests need further investigation as they may either 1) hide
previously unknown OOPIF-related bugs or 2) expose known OOPIF-related
differences in product behavior or 3) expose known OOPIF-support issues
in tests or in the test harness.  Over time, such tests should be
removed from `virtual/not-site-per-process`.  These tests are covered
by `LayoutTests/TestExpectations` file.
