---
breadcrumbs:
- - /Home
  - Chromium
- - /Home/chromium-security
  - Chromium Security
page_name: enamel
title: Security UX
---

Online security is more than just eliminating buffer overflows from software.
One of our biggest security challenges is helping people make safe decisions
while they surf the web. Here are some of the things we're doing to make
security on the web easier for everyone — both people who use browsers and web
apps, and web app developers. Some of these points are discussed in more detail
in [Improving Chrome’s Security
Warnings](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16ygiQS0_5b9A4NwHxpcd6sW3b_Up81_qXU-XY86JHc4/edit?usp=sharing)
by Adrienne Porter Felt.

[TOC]

## Anti-malware

### Malicious Websites

Malicious or compromised websites try to attack visitors. To protect people from
these threats, Chrome uses [Safe
Browsing](/developers/design-documents/safebrowsing) to identify attack
websites. If Safe Browsing tells Chrome that a website is malicious, Chrome
shows a full-screen warning. Despite the fact that our warnings are rarely
wrong, people ignore the warnings nearly a fifth of the time. We are actively
running experiments with the goal of decreasing how many people ignore the
warnings.

### Malware Downloads

Shady websites also try to trick people into installing malicious programs on
their computers. By default, Chrome blocks known malware downloads. Chrome also
warns people about potentially dangerous files that have not been scanned; we
are trying to improve this generic warning with new security measures. For
example, we want to make it easier for people to view PDFs more safely without
needing to show warnings about PDFs.

## Passwords And Phishing

Password management is hard. Sometimes people choose weak passwords, re-use
passwords inappropriately, or type passwords into phishing websites. The browser
currently offers people minimal assistance in choosing good passwords or knowing
when to enter them. We're currently using [Safe Browsing to help warn people
about phishing pages](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/99020?hl=en), but
we're also working on other ways to make authentication on the web easier and
safer.

## Website Authentication

Website authentication is paramount to online security. We know that current
HTTPS indicators and warnings are confusing, and they are often false positives.
The browser’s lack of confidence about the authenticity of a given TLS
connection forces it to offer people a choice that they are not likely to
understand, so we're working on ways to improve website authentication and
protect users from inadvertently visiting or interacting with sites they don't
intend to. Here are some of the things we're currently working on:

*   [HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)](/hsts) adoption and
            pre-loading
*   Developing a standard for [SSL certificate public key
            pinning](https://www.imperialviolet.org/2011/05/04/pinning.html)
*   SSL evangelism, support, and other odds n' ends (e.g. ["got TLS?"
            tech
            talk](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1G1286W5_VdsBBJo9PjQ6uN78djFupO-Bn4RUlFu3Tng/edit),
            [blocking HTTP basic
            auth](http://blog.chromium.org/2011/06/new-chromium-security-features-june.html))
*   Making the warning more understandable

Read more about TLS support in Chromium on [our TLS education
page](/Home/chromium-security/education/tls).

## **Presenting Origins**

The fundamental security boundary on the web is the
*[origin](https://code.google.com/p/browsersec/wiki/Part2)*, defined as the
tuple (*scheme*, *hostname*, *port*). For example, (https, www.example.com,
443). We must surface this boundary to people during browsing, in
permissions/capabilities dialogs, and so on, so that they can know whom they are
talking to. In particular, it is important to note that unauthenticated origins
(e.g. (http, www.example.com, 80)) are entirely observable and malleable by
attackers who can control the network (often, even just a little bit of control
is enough).

Because people (including developers!) tend not to understand the concept of the
origin, but do tend to understand the concept of the hostname, we'd like to
simplify origin names when we can. Ideally we could reduce the origin name to
just the much more understandable hostname. For example, we could elide the
scheme or replace it with a meaningful icon, if doing so did not prevent people
from understanding whether or not an origin is authenticated. And if the port is
the default port for the given scheme, we can elide it, too.

If the feature or behavior we are trying to protect is available *only* on
authenticated origins — which we strongly suggest — you could leave off the
scheme or the icon. Otherwise, it might be better to highlight the
non-authenticated nature of the origin when presenting it.

In addition, we strongly recommend that UIs clearly mark unauthenticated origins
as such.

A good utility function to use for presenting URLs in security decision contexts
is url_formatter::FormatUrlForSecurityDisplay.

### Eliding Origin Names And Hostnames

[<img alt="image" src="/Home/chromium-security/enamel/origins.png" height=240
width=320>](/Home/chromium-security/enamel/origins.png)

The effective top-level domain (eTLD) of a hostname is the TLD as found in the
[Public Suffix List](https://publicsuffix.org/) (PSL), which is not necessarily
guaranteed to be a single label like "com". Some eTLDs found in the PSL have
more than one label, e.g. .co.jp, and others are the names of web sites that
give out subdomains for user content and code from many sources, like
.appspot.com and .github.io. For many purposes, these multi-label names are
effectively TLDs, hence the name.

At a minimum, we would like to show users the eTLD + 1 label, e.g.
pumpkins.co.jp, google.com, noodles.appspot.com, or example.org. Where possible,
it is best to show the entire hostname, however. If the hostname is too long,
and/or if it has too many labels underneath the eTLD, that may be a sign that it
is a phishing host.

Although domain name labels are limited to 63 octets and the entire name is
limited to 255 octets (see <https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1035.txt>, section
2.3.4), on small screens or small windows on large screens, even eTLD + 1 might
be too long. In such a case, we should elide from the left. for example,
www.reallyannoying.goats.example.com should display as "...oats.example.com"
instead of "www.reallyanno...".

## Permissions

The browser grants privileges to apps, extensions, and websites after asking the
person for permission. In some cases, the browser also uses status indicators to
indicate when an origin is accessing a granted permission. We currently don’t
have quantitative data on how well these pieces of UI work, but we have
anecdotal evidence suggesting they fail to capture people's attention and/or
explain the situation. Thus, they aren't being totally effective at achieving
their original purpose. This is what we're doing to improve things:

*   Creating experiments and collecting data to quantify how effective
            Chrome's permissions systems are
*   Designing new types of analyses to measure the threat of extensions,
            apps, and websites
*   Designing new ways to communicate permission information to end
            users

[Goals For The Origin Info
Bubble](/Home/chromium-security/enamel/goals-for-the-origin-info-bubble)
discusses a way to make permissions easier for people to manage.

## **Usability Measurement Tools**

Calculate the effective contrast ratio of text on its background:
<http://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/>

Another contrast checking tool: [Contraster](https://gh.ada.is/contrast-widget/)

Flesch-Kincaid (and other) readability calculator:
<http://www.readability-score.com/>

Simulate the effects of colorblindness:
<http://www.etre.com/tools/colourblindsimulator/> and
<http://www.color-blindness.com/coblis-color-blindness-simulator/>

## **Documents**

*   [Chrome Security UX (Enamel) Public
            Folder](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B6FmQe6bc6yVZ012REktU09NOEE&authuser=0)
    *   [Chrome Security
                UI](https://docs.google.com/a/chromium.org/document/d/11-SXwzCGBlk8q1cNtb7peZjb2UjRPrKSFhOfZhTOz24/edit)
*   [Security guidelines for Chrome Extension & App API
            developers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RamP4-HJ7GAJY3yv2ju2cK50K9GhOsydJN6KIO81das/pub)

If you are a Googler, you can access the folder of Google-internal Enamel
documents at [go/enamel-folder](https://goto.google.com/enamel-folder) (using
your corp account).