---
breadcrumbs:
- - /developers
  - For Developers
- - /developers/design-documents
  - Design Documents
page_name: native-controls
title: Native Controls
---

### Background

Despite the fact that views provides facilities for custom layout, rendering and
event processing, in many situations we have found it desirable to use the
controls provided by the host operating system (Windows to begin with). This is
because these widgets already have many desirable properties: a system-native
appearance that reflects the latest and greatest of the host operating system
(e.g. using the same Win32 API as Windows XP on Windows Vista, native buttons
receive glow animations when highlighted), handling for accessibility, focus,
etc. Implementing new controls using views and Skia would be possible but it
would take a long time to replicate all of this functionality, and we would have
to update it for each new operating system release as well. So for areas of our
UI where it wasn't important to have a distinctive, custom look, we have fallen
back to native controls.

### Historic Abstraction

Historically, NativeControls have been used like so:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/design-documents/native-controls/NativeControlHistoric2.png">](/developers/design-documents/native-controls/NativeControlHistoric2.png)

A base class, NativeControl, is the root of all NativeControls, like buttons,
checkboxes, tree views, etc. This View subclass is Windows-specific and has a
child View that is a HWNDView. This HWNDView hosts a HWND
(NativeControlContainer) that is the parent of the actual native control HWND.
The parent is responsible for receiving messages sent from the child HWND (e.g.
WM_COMMAND, WM_NOTIFY etc) and forwarding these back to the NativeControl. This
structure with the additional HWND was thought necessary because the assorted
Windows common controls communicate message notifications to the client app by
sending messages to the parent window. Back when Chrome had several different
ViewContainer/root widget types, it made sense to encapsulate this handling at
the NativeControl level. These days, there is only one root HWND type to be
concerned with - WidgetWin, so it actually makes more sense to have it receive
control notifications and forward them back to the NativeControl, rather than
having to carry around all these extra HWNDs.

Another problem with this abstraction is related to the fact that Chrome has
many different kinds of Buttons. Because NativeButton has no shared base class
with the other Button base (BaseButton), much of the API ends up being slightly
different. It'd be desirable to share a base class and then implement any of the
NativeButton-specific methods in the derived class. However this is not possible
due to this structure.

A final point of note: some NativeControl subclasses like CheckBox are a
combination of system native controls and views components. To get proper
transparent rendering behind the text label of a checkbox, the CheckBox has two
child views - one which is the native windows control rendering only the
checkmark section, and a views::Label child which renders the text. This
structure has to be accommodated in any proposed modifications to this design.

### Proposed Design

First of all, for any proposed design it's desirable to keep the API simple for
users since native controls are used in very many places throughout Chrome.
Ideally, using a native control is as simple as constructing one and adding it
to your view hierarchy, which is the usage model that exists today for the
windows-specific native controls and the views controls.

To achieve this, we use the PIMPL idiom to hide the native control
implementation from the client in a setup like this:

[<img alt="image"
src="/developers/design-documents/native-controls/NativeControl.png">](/developers/design-documents/native-controls/NativeControl.png)

In this world, NativeButton is a class derived from a base Button class just as
the other Button classes are (e.g. TextButton, etc). It overrides various
methods that require interaction with the native control, such as making the
button appear as the default button in a dialog box etc. The interesting thing
here is that the NativeButton itself is cross-platform code. The
platform-specific details of implementing a native control are encapsulated
behind a platform-neutral NativeControl interface implemented, in this example,
by a new class NativeControlWin, a subclass of HWNDView that hosts the actual
Windows native control. We avoid having an extra HWND here by stashing a pointer
to the NativeControlWin on the attached HWND, and have the message handler in
WidgetWin attempt to forward the message to the NativeControlWin directly if it
finds such an association. The NativeButton implements a listener interface that
receives higher level notifications from the NativeControl implementation about
messages received from the operating system.

Since NativeControl is an interface not a class, it must provide a GetView
accessor for the View that is to be parented as a child of the NativeButton,
CheckBox or other view.

In this way, NativeButton can share a base class with other button types. A
similar relationship can exist for other native controls where this is
applicable, e.g. scroll bars, tree views, etc.

#### More Complex Controls

For controls more complex than buttons like, for example, TreeViews, there can
be more elaborate code in NativeControlWin subclasses that handle messages from
the native UI control and notify the view on the right half of the diagram as
needed. Keeping the views on the right half of diagram platform neutral hides
the complexity of maintaining platform-specific controls from consumers in the
application - e.g. there is no need for ifdefs or factory methods at the call
sites - the views can just be constructed directly and added to the view
hierarchy:

void FooView::Init() {

button_ = new views::NativeButton;

button_-&gt;SetListener(this);

AddChildView(button_);

}

...

void FooView::Layout() {

button_-&gt;SetBounds(0, 0, width(), height());

}

vs the more baroque:

void FooView::Init() {

button_ = views::NativeButton::CreateNativeButton();

button_-&gt;SetListener(this);

AddChildView(button_-&gt;GetView());

}

...

void FooView::Layout() {

button_-&gt;GetView()-&gt;Layout(0, 0, width(), height());

}