Tests that console can filter messages by source.


Running: beforeFilter
beforeFilter
console-filter-test.js:14 0topGroup
log-source.js:3 1topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 2topGroup
log-source.js:3 3topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 4topGroup
log-source.js:3 5topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 6topGroup
log-source.js:3 7topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 8topGroup
log-source.js:3 9topGroup
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 10outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 11outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 12outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 13outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 14outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 15outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 16outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 17outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 18outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 19outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 20innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 21innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 22innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 23innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 24innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 25innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 26innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 27innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 28innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 29innerGroup
console-filter-test.js:43 Hello 1
console-filter-test.js:44 Hello 2
console-filter-test.js:46 end

Running: allLevelsFilter
console-filter-test.js:14 0topGroup
log-source.js:3 1topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 2topGroup
log-source.js:3 3topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 4topGroup
log-source.js:3 5topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 6topGroup
log-source.js:3 7topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 8topGroup
log-source.js:3 9topGroup
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 10outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 11outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 12outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 13outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 14outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 15outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 16outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 17outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 18outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 19outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 20innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 21innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 22innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 23innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 24innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 25innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 26innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 27innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 28innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 29innerGroup
console-filter-test.js:43 Hello 1
console-filter-test.js:44 Hello 2
console-filter-test.js:46 end
[Violation] Violation message text

Running: addURL1Filter
Blocking messages from test://evaluations/0/console-filter-test.js
log-source.js:3 1topGroup
log-source.js:3 3topGroup
log-source.js:3 5topGroup
log-source.js:3 7topGroup
log-source.js:3 9topGroup
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 11outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 13outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 15outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 17outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 19outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 21innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 23innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 25innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 27innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 29innerGroup
[Violation] Violation message text

Running: addURL2Filter
Blocking messages from http://127.0.0.1:8000/devtools/console/resources/log-source.js
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
[Violation] Violation message text

Running: removeAllFilters
console-filter-test.js:14 0topGroup
log-source.js:3 1topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 2topGroup
log-source.js:3 3topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 4topGroup
log-source.js:3 5topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 6topGroup
log-source.js:3 7topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 8topGroup
log-source.js:3 9topGroup
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 10outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 11outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 12outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 13outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 14outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 15outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 16outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 17outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 18outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 19outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 20innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 21innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 22innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 23innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 24innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 25innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 26innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 27innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 28innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 29innerGroup
console-filter-test.js:43 Hello 1
console-filter-test.js:44 Hello 2
console-filter-test.js:46 end
[Violation] Violation message text

Running: checkTextFilter
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 10outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 11outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 12outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 13outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 14outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 15outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 16outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 17outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 18outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 19outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup

Running: checkMultiTextFilter
console-filter-test.js:14 2topGroup
log-source.js:3 3topGroup
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup

Running: checkTextUrlFilter
log-source.js:3 1topGroup
log-source.js:3 3topGroup
log-source.js:3 5topGroup
log-source.js:3 7topGroup
log-source.js:3 9topGroup
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 11outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 13outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 15outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 17outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 19outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 21innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 23innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 25innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 27innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 29innerGroup

Running: checkNegativeTextUrlFilter
console-filter-test.js:14 0topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 2topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 4topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 6topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 8topGroup
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 10outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 12outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 14outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 16outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 18outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 20innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 22innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 24innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 26innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 28innerGroup
console-filter-test.js:43 Hello 1
console-filter-test.js:44 Hello 2
console-filter-test.js:46 end
[Violation] Violation message text

Running: checkSourceFilter
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
[Violation] Violation message text

Running: checkContextTextFilter
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
console-filter-test.js:43 Hello 1
console-filter-test.js:44 Hello 2

Running: checkStartEndLineRegex
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
console-filter-test.js:43 Hello 1
console-filter-test.js:44 Hello 2

Running: checkStartEndLineRegexForAnchor
log-source.js:3 1topGroup
log-source.js:3 3topGroup
log-source.js:3 5topGroup
log-source.js:3 7topGroup
log-source.js:3 9topGroup
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 11outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 13outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 15outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 17outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 19outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 21innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 23innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 25innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 27innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 29innerGroup

Running: checkResetFilter
console-filter-test.js:14 0topGroup
log-source.js:3 1topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 2topGroup
log-source.js:3 3topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 4topGroup
log-source.js:3 5topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 6topGroup
log-source.js:3 7topGroup
console-filter-test.js:14 8topGroup
log-source.js:3 9topGroup
>console-filter-test.js:24 outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 10outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 11outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 12outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 13outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 14outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 15outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 16outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 17outerGroup
  console-filter-test.js:14 18outerGroup
  log-source.js:3 19outerGroup
  >console-filter-test.js:31 innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 20innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 21innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 22innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 23innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 24innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 25innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 26innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 27innerGroup
    console-filter-test.js:14 28innerGroup
    log-source.js:3 29innerGroup
console-filter-test.js:43 Hello 1
console-filter-test.js:44 Hello 2
console-filter-test.js:46 end

