docs/android_build_instructions.md, before:

# Checking out and building Chromium for Android

There are instructions for other platforms linked from the
[get the code](get_the_code.md) page.

## Instructions for Google Employees

Are you a Google employee? See
[go/building-android-chrome](https://goto.google.com/building-android-chrome)
instead.

[TOC]

## System requirements

* A 64-bit Intel machine running Linux with at least 8GB of RAM. More
  than 16GB is highly recommended.
* At least 100GB of free disk space.
* You must have Git and Python installed already.

Most development is done on Ubuntu. Other distros may or may not work;
see the [Linux instructions](linux_build_instructions.md) for some suggestions.

Building the Android client on Windows or Mac is not supported and doesn't work.

## Install depot\_tools

Clone the `depot_tools` repository:

```shell
git clone https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/tools/depot_tools.git
```

Add `depot_tools` to the end of your PATH (you will probably want to put this
in your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`). Assuming you cloned `depot_tools`
to `/path/to/depot_tools`:

```shell
export PATH="$PATH:/path/to/depot_tools"
```

## Get the code

Create a `chromium` directory for the checkout and change to it (you can call
this whatever you like and put it wherever you like, as
long as the full path has no spaces):

```shell
mkdir ~/chromium && cd ~/chromium
fetch --nohooks android
```

If you don't want the full repo history, you can save a lot of time by
adding the `--no-history` flag to `fetch`.

Expect the command to take 30 minutes on even a fast connection, and many
hours on slower ones.

If you've already installed the build dependencies on the machine (from another
checkout, for example), you can omit the `--nohooks` flag and `fetch`
will automatically execute `gclient runhooks` at the end.

When `fetch` completes, it will have created a hidden `.gclient` file and a
directory called `src` in the working directory. The remaining instructions
assume you have switched to the `src` directory:

```shell
cd src
```

### Converting an existing Linux checkout

If you have an existing Linux checkout, you can add Android support by
appending `target_os = ['android']` to your `.gclient` file (in the
directory above `src`):

```shell
echo "target_os = [ 'android' ]" >> ../.gclient
```

Then run `gclient sync` to pull the new Android dependencies:

```shell
gclient sync
```

(This is the only difference between `fetch android` and `fetch chromium`.)

### Install additional build dependencies

Once you have checked out the code, run

```shell
build/install-build-deps-android.sh
```

to get all of the dependencies you need to build on Linux, *plus* all of the
Android-specific dependencies (you need some of the regular Linux dependencies
because an Android build includes a bunch of the Linux tools and utilities).

### Run the hooks

Once you've run `install-build-deps` at least once, you can now run the
Chromium-specific hooks, which will download additional binaries and other
things you might need:

```shell
gclient runhooks
```

*Optional*: You can also [install API
keys](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/api-keys) if you want your
build to talk to some Google services, but this is not necessary for most
development and testing purposes.

## Setting up the build

Chromium uses [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org) as its main build tool along with
a tool called [GN](https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/master/docs/quick_start.md)
to generate `.ninja` files. You can create any number of *build directories*
with different configurations. To create a build directory which builds Chrome
for Android, run `gn args out/Default` and edit the file to contain the
following arguments:

```gn
target_os = "android"
target_cpu = "arm64"  # See "Figuring out target_cpu" below
```

* You only have to run this once for each new build directory, Ninja will
  update the build files as needed.
* You can replace `Default` with another name, but
  it should be a subdirectory of `out`.
* For other build arguments, including release settings, see [GN build
  configuration](https://www.chromium.org/developers/gn-build-configuration).
  The default will be a debug component build.
* For more info on GN, run `gn help` on the command line or read the
  [quick start guide](https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/master/docs/quick_start.md).

Also be aware that some scripts (e.g. `tombstones.py`, `adb_gdb.py`)
require you to set `CHROMIUM_OUTPUT_DIR=out/Default`.

### Figuring out target\_cpu

The value of
[`target_cpu`](https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/master/docs/reference.md#target_cpu)
determines what instruction set to use for native code. Given a device (or
emulator), you can determine the correct instruction set with `adb shell getprop
ro.product.cpu.abi`:

| `getprop ro.product.cpu.abi` output | `target_cpu` value |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------|
| `arm64-v8a`                         | `arm64`            |
| `armeabi-v7a`                       | `arm`              |
| `x86`                               | `x86`              |
| `x86_64`                            | `x64`              |

*** promo
`arm` and `x86` may optionally be used instead of `arm64` and `x64` for
non-WebView targets. This is also allowed for Monochrome, but only when not set
as the WebView provider.
***

## Build Chromium

Build Chromium with Ninja using the command:

```shell
autoninja -C out/Default chrome_public_apk
```

(`autoninja` is a wrapper that automatically provides optimal values for the
arguments passed to `ninja`.)

You can get a list of all of the other build targets from GN by running `gn ls
out/Default` from the command line. To compile one, pass the GN label to Ninja
with no preceding "//" (so, for `//chrome/test:unit_tests` use `autoninja -C
out/Default chrome/test:unit_tests`).

### Multiple Chrome APK Targets

The Google Play Store allows apps to send customized `.apk` files depending on
the version of Android running on a device. Chrome uses this feature to target
4 different versions using 4 different ninja targets:

1. `chrome_public_apk` (ChromePublic.apk)
   * `minSdkVersion=19` (KitKat).
   * Stores libchrome.so compressed within the APK.
   * Uses [Crazy Linker](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/base/android/linker/BUILD.gn?rcl=6bb29391a86f2be58c626170156cbfaa2cbc5c91&l=9).
   * Shipped only for Android < 21, but still works fine on Android >= 21.
2. `chrome_modern_public_apk` (ChromeModernPublic.apk)
   * `minSdkVersion=21` (Lollipop).
   * Uses [Crazy Linker](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/base/android/linker/BUILD.gn?rcl=6bb29391a86f2be58c626170156cbfaa2cbc5c91&l=9).
   * Stores libchrome.so uncompressed within the APK.
     * This APK is bigger, but the installation size is smaller since there is
       no need to extract the .so file.
3. `monochrome_public_apk` (MonochromePublic.apk)
   * `minSdkVersion=24` (Nougat).
   * Contains both WebView and Chrome within the same APK.
     * This APK is even bigger, but much smaller than SystemWebView.apk + ChromePublic.apk.
   * Stores libmonochrome.so uncompressed within the APK.
   * Does not use Crazy Linker (WebView requires system linker).
     * But system linker supports crazy linker features now anyways.
4. `trichrome_chrome_apk` and `trichrome_library_apk` (TrichromeChrome.apk and TrichromeLibrary.apk)
   * `minSdkVersion=Q` (Q).
   * TrichromeChrome contains only the Chrome code that is not shared with WebView.
   * TrichromeLibrary contains the shared code and is a "static shared library APK", which must be installed prior to TrichromeChrome.
   * Stores libmonochrome.so uncompressed within TrichromeLibrary.apk.
   * Does not use Crazy Linker (WebView requires system linker).
     * But system linker supports crazy linker features now anyways.

**Note**: These instructions use `chrome_public_apk`, but either of the other
two targets can be substituted.

**Note**: These targets are actually the open-source equivalents to the
closed-source targets that get shipped to the Play Store.

**Note**: For more in-depth differences, see [android_native_libraries.md](android_native_libraries.md).

## Updating your checkout

To update an existing checkout, you can run

```shell
$ git rebase-update
$ gclient sync
```

The first command updates the primary Chromium source repository and rebases
any of your local branches on top of tip-of-tree (aka the Git branch
`origin/master`). If you don't want to use this script, you can also just use
`git pull` or other common Git commands to update the repo.

The second command syncs dependencies to the appropriate versions and re-runs
hooks as needed.

## Installing and Running Chromium on a device

### Plug in your Android device

Make sure your Android device is plugged in via USB, and USB Debugging
is enabled.

To enable USB Debugging:

*   Navigate to Settings \> About Phone \> Build number
*   Click 'Build number' 7 times
*   Now navigate back to Settings \> Developer Options
*   Enable 'USB Debugging' and follow the prompts

You may also be prompted to allow access to your PC once your device is
plugged in.

You can check if the device is connected by running:

```shell
third_party/android_sdk/public/platform-tools/adb devices
```

Which prints a list of connected devices. If not connected, try
unplugging and reattaching your device.

### Enable apps from unknown sources

Allow Android to run APKs that haven't been signed through the Play Store:

*   Enable 'Unknown sources' under Settings \> Security

In case that setting isn't present, it may be possible to configure it via
`adb shell` instead:

```shell
third_party/android_sdk/public/platform-tools/adb shell settings put global verifier_verify_adb_installs 0
```

### Build the full browser

```shell
autoninja -C out/Default chrome_public_apk
```

And deploy it to your Android device:

```shell
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk install
```

The app will appear on the device as "Chromium".

### Build Content shell

Wraps the content module (but not the /chrome embedder). See
[https://www.chromium.org/developers/content-module](https://www.chromium.org/developers/content-module)
for details on the content module and content shell.

```shell
autoninja -C out/Default content_shell_apk
out/Default/bin/content_shell_apk install
```

this will build and install an Android apk under
`out/Default/apks/ContentShell.apk`.

### Build WebView

[Android WebView](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebView.html)
is a system framework component. Since Android KitKat, it is implemented using
Chromium code (based off the [content module](https://dev.chromium.org/developers/content-module)).

If you want to build the complete Android WebView framework component and test
the effect of your chromium changes in Android apps using WebView, you should
follow the [Android AOSP + chromium WebView
instructions](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/build-instructions-android-webview)

### Running

For Content shell:

```shell
out/Default/bin/content_shell_apk launch [--args='--foo --bar'] http://example.com
```

For Chrome public:

```shell
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk launch [--args='--foo --bar'] http://example.com
```

### Logging and debugging

Logging is often the easiest way to understand code flow. In C++ you can print
log statements using the LOG macro. In Java, refer to
[android_logging.md](android_logging.md).

You can see these log via `adb logcat`, or:

```shell
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk logcat
```

To debug C++ code, use one of the following commands:

```shell
out/Default/bin/content_shell_apk gdb
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk gdb
```

See [Android Debugging Instructions](android_debugging_instructions.md)
for more on debugging, including how to debug Java code.

### Testing

For information on running tests, see
[Android Test Instructions](testing/android_test_instructions.md).

### Faster Edit/Deploy

#### GN Args
Args that affect build speed:
 * `is_component_build = true` *(default=`is_debug`)*
   * What it does: Uses multiple `.so` files instead of just one (faster links)
 * `is_java_debug = true` *(default=`is_debug`)*
   * What it does: Disables ProGuard (slow build step)

#### Incremental Install
[Incremental Install](/build/android/incremental_install/README.md) uses
reflection and side-loading to speed up the edit & deploy cycle (normally < 10
seconds). The initial launch of the apk will be a lot slower on older Android
versions (pre-N) where the OS needs to pre-optimize the side-loaded files, but
then be only marginally slower after the first launch.

To enable Incremental Install, add the gn args:

```gn
incremental_install = true
disable_incremental_isolated_processes = true
```

Some APKs (e.g. WebView) do not work with incremental install, and are
blacklisted from being built as such via `never_incremental = true`.

**Bug:** Sometimes Android does not notice changes to dex files, and tries to
use prior versions. If you see impossible sounding dex exceptions, try
uninstalling then re-installing:

```shell
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk uninstall
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk run
```

## Installing and Running Chromium on an Emulator

Running on an emulator is the same as on a device. Refer to
[android_emulator.md](android_emulator.md) for setting up emulators.


## Tips, tricks, and troubleshooting

### Rebuilding libchrome.so for a particular release

These instructions are only necessary for Chrome 51 and earlier.

In the case where you want to modify the native code for an existing
release of Chrome for Android (v25+) you can do the following steps.
Note that in order to get your changes into the official release, you'll
need to send your change for a codereview using the regular process for
committing code to chromium.

1.  Open Chrome on your Android device and visit chrome://version
2.  Copy down the id listed next to "Build ID:"
3.  Go to
    [http://storage.googleapis.com/chrome-browser-components/BUILD\_ID\_FROM\_STEP\_2/index.html](http://storage.googleapis.com/chrome-browser-components/BUILD_ID_FROM_STEP_2/index.html)
4.  Download the listed files and follow the steps in the README.

Commit message:

Zap missed reference to disable_incremental_isolated_processes in docs
TBR=agrieve  # Minor doc update
Bug: 1013688

Change-Id: I54413da15ad8cceb242ed3758f413cbfa54c8fd6
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/1873283
Commit-Queue: Andrew Grieve <agrieve@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Andrew Grieve <agrieve@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#708349}

Former-commit-id: c45749e575045ed9784e9405f88d0e6adbbf146f

docs/android_build_instructions.md, after:

# Checking out and building Chromium for Android

There are instructions for other platforms linked from the
[get the code](get_the_code.md) page.

## Instructions for Google Employees

Are you a Google employee? See
[go/building-android-chrome](https://goto.google.com/building-android-chrome)
instead.

[TOC]

## System requirements

* A 64-bit Intel machine running Linux with at least 8GB of RAM. More
  than 16GB is highly recommended.
* At least 100GB of free disk space.
* You must have Git and Python installed already.

Most development is done on Ubuntu. Other distros may or may not work;
see the [Linux instructions](linux_build_instructions.md) for some suggestions.

Building the Android client on Windows or Mac is not supported and doesn't work.

## Install depot\_tools

Clone the `depot_tools` repository:

```shell
git clone https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/tools/depot_tools.git
```

Add `depot_tools` to the end of your PATH (you will probably want to put this
in your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`). Assuming you cloned `depot_tools`
to `/path/to/depot_tools`:

```shell
export PATH="$PATH:/path/to/depot_tools"
```

## Get the code

Create a `chromium` directory for the checkout and change to it (you can call
this whatever you like and put it wherever you like, as
long as the full path has no spaces):

```shell
mkdir ~/chromium && cd ~/chromium
fetch --nohooks android
```

If you don't want the full repo history, you can save a lot of time by
adding the `--no-history` flag to `fetch`.

Expect the command to take 30 minutes on even a fast connection, and many
hours on slower ones.

If you've already installed the build dependencies on the machine (from another
checkout, for example), you can omit the `--nohooks` flag and `fetch`
will automatically execute `gclient runhooks` at the end.

When `fetch` completes, it will have created a hidden `.gclient` file and a
directory called `src` in the working directory. The remaining instructions
assume you have switched to the `src` directory:

```shell
cd src
```

### Converting an existing Linux checkout

If you have an existing Linux checkout, you can add Android support by
appending `target_os = ['android']` to your `.gclient` file (in the
directory above `src`):

```shell
echo "target_os = [ 'android' ]" >> ../.gclient
```

Then run `gclient sync` to pull the new Android dependencies:

```shell
gclient sync
```

(This is the only difference between `fetch android` and `fetch chromium`.)

### Install additional build dependencies

Once you have checked out the code, run

```shell
build/install-build-deps-android.sh
```

to get all of the dependencies you need to build on Linux, *plus* all of the
Android-specific dependencies (you need some of the regular Linux dependencies
because an Android build includes a bunch of the Linux tools and utilities).

### Run the hooks

Once you've run `install-build-deps` at least once, you can now run the
Chromium-specific hooks, which will download additional binaries and other
things you might need:

```shell
gclient runhooks
```

*Optional*: You can also [install API
keys](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/api-keys) if you want your
build to talk to some Google services, but this is not necessary for most
development and testing purposes.

## Setting up the build

Chromium uses [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org) as its main build tool along with
a tool called [GN](https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/master/docs/quick_start.md)
to generate `.ninja` files. You can create any number of *build directories*
with different configurations. To create a build directory which builds Chrome
for Android, run `gn args out/Default` and edit the file to contain the
following arguments:

```gn
target_os = "android"
target_cpu = "arm64"  # See "Figuring out target_cpu" below
```

* You only have to run this once for each new build directory, Ninja will
  update the build files as needed.
* You can replace `Default` with another name, but
  it should be a subdirectory of `out`.
* For other build arguments, including release settings, see [GN build
  configuration](https://www.chromium.org/developers/gn-build-configuration).
  The default will be a debug component build.
* For more info on GN, run `gn help` on the command line or read the
  [quick start guide](https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/master/docs/quick_start.md).

Also be aware that some scripts (e.g. `tombstones.py`, `adb_gdb.py`)
require you to set `CHROMIUM_OUTPUT_DIR=out/Default`.

### Figuring out target\_cpu

The value of
[`target_cpu`](https://gn.googlesource.com/gn/+/master/docs/reference.md#target_cpu)
determines what instruction set to use for native code. Given a device (or
emulator), you can determine the correct instruction set with `adb shell getprop
ro.product.cpu.abi`:

| `getprop ro.product.cpu.abi` output | `target_cpu` value |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------|
| `arm64-v8a`                         | `arm64`            |
| `armeabi-v7a`                       | `arm`              |
| `x86`                               | `x86`              |
| `x86_64`                            | `x64`              |

*** promo
`arm` and `x86` may optionally be used instead of `arm64` and `x64` for
non-WebView targets. This is also allowed for Monochrome, but only when not set
as the WebView provider.
***

## Build Chromium

Build Chromium with Ninja using the command:

```shell
autoninja -C out/Default chrome_public_apk
```

(`autoninja` is a wrapper that automatically provides optimal values for the
arguments passed to `ninja`.)

You can get a list of all of the other build targets from GN by running `gn ls
out/Default` from the command line. To compile one, pass the GN label to Ninja
with no preceding "//" (so, for `//chrome/test:unit_tests` use `autoninja -C
out/Default chrome/test:unit_tests`).

### Multiple Chrome APK Targets

The Google Play Store allows apps to send customized `.apk` files depending on
the version of Android running on a device. Chrome uses this feature to target
4 different versions using 4 different ninja targets:

1. `chrome_public_apk` (ChromePublic.apk)
   * `minSdkVersion=19` (KitKat).
   * Stores libchrome.so compressed within the APK.
   * Uses [Crazy Linker](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/base/android/linker/BUILD.gn?rcl=6bb29391a86f2be58c626170156cbfaa2cbc5c91&l=9).
   * Shipped only for Android < 21, but still works fine on Android >= 21.
2. `chrome_modern_public_apk` (ChromeModernPublic.apk)
   * `minSdkVersion=21` (Lollipop).
   * Uses [Crazy Linker](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/base/android/linker/BUILD.gn?rcl=6bb29391a86f2be58c626170156cbfaa2cbc5c91&l=9).
   * Stores libchrome.so uncompressed within the APK.
     * This APK is bigger, but the installation size is smaller since there is
       no need to extract the .so file.
3. `monochrome_public_apk` (MonochromePublic.apk)
   * `minSdkVersion=24` (Nougat).
   * Contains both WebView and Chrome within the same APK.
     * This APK is even bigger, but much smaller than SystemWebView.apk + ChromePublic.apk.
   * Stores libmonochrome.so uncompressed within the APK.
   * Does not use Crazy Linker (WebView requires system linker).
     * But system linker supports crazy linker features now anyways.
4. `trichrome_chrome_apk` and `trichrome_library_apk` (TrichromeChrome.apk and TrichromeLibrary.apk)
   * `minSdkVersion=Q` (Q).
   * TrichromeChrome contains only the Chrome code that is not shared with WebView.
   * TrichromeLibrary contains the shared code and is a "static shared library APK", which must be installed prior to TrichromeChrome.
   * Stores libmonochrome.so uncompressed within TrichromeLibrary.apk.
   * Does not use Crazy Linker (WebView requires system linker).
     * But system linker supports crazy linker features now anyways.

**Note**: These instructions use `chrome_public_apk`, but either of the other
two targets can be substituted.

**Note**: These targets are actually the open-source equivalents to the
closed-source targets that get shipped to the Play Store.

**Note**: For more in-depth differences, see [android_native_libraries.md](android_native_libraries.md).

## Updating your checkout

To update an existing checkout, you can run

```shell
$ git rebase-update
$ gclient sync
```

The first command updates the primary Chromium source repository and rebases
any of your local branches on top of tip-of-tree (aka the Git branch
`origin/master`). If you don't want to use this script, you can also just use
`git pull` or other common Git commands to update the repo.

The second command syncs dependencies to the appropriate versions and re-runs
hooks as needed.

## Installing and Running Chromium on a device

### Plug in your Android device

Make sure your Android device is plugged in via USB, and USB Debugging
is enabled.

To enable USB Debugging:

*   Navigate to Settings \> About Phone \> Build number
*   Click 'Build number' 7 times
*   Now navigate back to Settings \> Developer Options
*   Enable 'USB Debugging' and follow the prompts

You may also be prompted to allow access to your PC once your device is
plugged in.

You can check if the device is connected by running:

```shell
third_party/android_sdk/public/platform-tools/adb devices
```

Which prints a list of connected devices. If not connected, try
unplugging and reattaching your device.

### Enable apps from unknown sources

Allow Android to run APKs that haven't been signed through the Play Store:

*   Enable 'Unknown sources' under Settings \> Security

In case that setting isn't present, it may be possible to configure it via
`adb shell` instead:

```shell
third_party/android_sdk/public/platform-tools/adb shell settings put global verifier_verify_adb_installs 0
```

### Build the full browser

```shell
autoninja -C out/Default chrome_public_apk
```

And deploy it to your Android device:

```shell
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk install
```

The app will appear on the device as "Chromium".

### Build Content shell

Wraps the content module (but not the /chrome embedder). See
[https://www.chromium.org/developers/content-module](https://www.chromium.org/developers/content-module)
for details on the content module and content shell.

```shell
autoninja -C out/Default content_shell_apk
out/Default/bin/content_shell_apk install
```

this will build and install an Android apk under
`out/Default/apks/ContentShell.apk`.

### Build WebView

[Android WebView](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebView.html)
is a system framework component. Since Android KitKat, it is implemented using
Chromium code (based off the [content module](https://dev.chromium.org/developers/content-module)).

If you want to build the complete Android WebView framework component and test
the effect of your chromium changes in Android apps using WebView, you should
follow the [Android AOSP + chromium WebView
instructions](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/build-instructions-android-webview)

### Running

For Content shell:

```shell
out/Default/bin/content_shell_apk launch [--args='--foo --bar'] http://example.com
```

For Chrome public:

```shell
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk launch [--args='--foo --bar'] http://example.com
```

### Logging and debugging

Logging is often the easiest way to understand code flow. In C++ you can print
log statements using the LOG macro. In Java, refer to
[android_logging.md](android_logging.md).

You can see these log via `adb logcat`, or:

```shell
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk logcat
```

To debug C++ code, use one of the following commands:

```shell
out/Default/bin/content_shell_apk gdb
out/Default/bin/chrome_public_apk gdb
```

See [Android Debugging Instructions](android_debugging_instructions.md)
for more on debugging, including how to debug Java code.

### Testing

For information on running tests, see
[Android Test Instructions](testing/android_test_instructions.md).

### Faster Edit/Deploy

#### GN Args
Args that affect build speed:
 * `is_component_build = true` *(default=`is_debug`)*
   * What it does: Uses multiple `.so` files instead of just one (faster links)
 * `is_java_debug = true` *(default=`is_debug`)*
   * What it does: Disables ProGuard (slow build step)

#### Incremental Install
[Incremental Install](/build/android/incremental_install/README.md) uses
reflection and sideloading to speed up the edit & deploy cycle (normally < 10
seconds). The initial launch of the apk will be a lot slower on older Android
versions (pre-N) where the OS needs to pre-optimize the side-loaded files, but
then be only marginally slower after the first launch.

To enable Incremental Install, add the gn args:

```gn
incremental_install = true
```

Some APKs (e.g. WebView) do not work with incremental install, and are
blacklisted from being built as such (via `never_incremental = true`), so are
build as normal APKs even when `incremental_install = true`.

## Installing and Running Chromium on an Emulator

Running on an emulator is the same as on a device. Refer to
[android_emulator.md](android_emulator.md) for setting up emulators.


## Tips, tricks, and troubleshooting

### Rebuilding libchrome.so for a particular release

These instructions are only necessary for Chrome 51 and earlier.

In the case where you want to modify the native code for an existing
release of Chrome for Android (v25+) you can do the following steps.
Note that in order to get your changes into the official release, you'll
need to send your change for a codereview using the regular process for
committing code to chromium.

1.  Open Chrome on your Android device and visit chrome://version
2.  Copy down the id listed next to "Build ID:"
3.  Go to
    [http://storage.googleapis.com/chrome-browser-components/BUILD\_ID\_FROM\_STEP\_2/index.html](http://storage.googleapis.com/chrome-browser-components/BUILD_ID_FROM_STEP_2/index.html)
4.  Download the listed files and follow the steps in the README.
